Contents


Chapter 1: Level 1 - 1 2

Chapter 2: Level 1 - 2 22

Chapter 3: Level 1 - 3 42

Chapter 4: Level 1 - 4 62

Chapter 5: Level 2 - 1 83

Chapter 6: Level 2 - 2 103

Chapter 7: Level 2 - 3 123

Chapter 8: Level 2 - 4 143

Chapter 9: Level 3 - 1 164

Chapter 10: Level 3 - 2 184

Chapter 11: Level 3 - 3 205

Chapter 12: Level 3 - 4 225





Chapter 1: Level 1 - 1





abandon

n. lacking restraint or control; feeling of extreme emotional intensity; unbounded enthusiasm





abduction

n. the criminal act of capturing and carrying away by force





abject

a. being of the most miserable kind; wretched; lacking pride; brought low in condition or status





abrasive

a. rubbing away; tending to grind down





absolute

a. perfect in quality or nature; complete; totally unlimited; certain





absolve

v. pronounce clear of guilt or blame; grant remission of sin to; acquit





absorb

v. assimilate or incorporate; suck or drink up; occupy full attention





abstinence

n. restraint from eating or drinking; refraining from indulging appetite or desire





abstract

a. theoretical; not concrete; not applied or practical; difficult to understand





abusive

a. coarsely insulting; physically harmful; characterized by improper or wrongful use





abyss

n. enormous chasm; vast bottomless pit; any deep, immeasurable space; hell





academic

a. related to school; not practical or directly useful; relating to the scholarly organization; based on formal education





accelerate

v. move faster; cause to develop or progress more quickly; occur sooner than expected





accessible

a. easily approached or entered; obtainable; easy to talk to or get along with





accessory

n. additional object; useful but not essential thing; subordinate or supplementary item





accommodate

v. do a favor or service for; provide for; supply with; make suitable; adapt; allow for





accomplice

n. partner in crime; associate in wrongdoing





accord

n. settlement or compromise of conflicting opinions; written agreement between two states





acknowledge

v. declare to be true or admit; express obligation, thanks





acme

n. the highest point or level, as of achievement or development; maturity or perfection of animal





acquire

v. gain through experience or effort; gain possession of; locate with a tracking system





acquittal

n. state of being found or proved not guilty; judgment of not guilty





acute

a. quickly perceptive; keen; having a sharp point or tip; extremely sharp or severe





adage

n. wise saying; brief familiar proverb; expression of popular wisdom





adamant

a. extremely hard; inflexible; stubbornly unyielding





adapt

v. make fit for; change to suit a new purpose





addiction

n. the compulsive physiological and psychological need for a substance; being abnormally dependent on something





address

v. make a formal speech to; deal with or discuss; direct efforts or attention of





adept

a. expert at; very skilled; having or showing knowledge and skill and aptitude





adhere

v. stick fast; stick to firmly; be compatible or in accordance with





adjacent

a. adjoining; neighboring; close to; lying near





administration

n. management; supervision; people who are in charge of management; the activity of government for powers and duties





adolescence

n. state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood; transitional period between youth and maturity





adversary

n. the opponent in a contest; someone who offers opposition





adverse

a. in opposing direction; harmful or unfavorable; acting or serving to oppose





adversity

n. state of misfortune, hardship, or affliction; misfortune





advocate

v. speak, plead, or argue in favor of; plead for; push for something





aesthetic

a. elegant or tasteful; of or concerning the appreciation of beauty or good taste





affected

a. speaking or behaving in an artificial way; emotionally stirred or moved; infected or attacked





affidavit

n. written statement made under oath





affiliation

n. partnership; alliance; association in the same family or society





affliction

n. cause or condition of pain, suffering, or distress





aftermath

n. outcome; consequence, especially of a disaster or misfortune





agenda

n. items of business at a meeting; list or program of things to be done or considered





agent

n. one that acts on behalf of other persons or organizations





aggressor

n. one that engages in aggression; a person who first attacks





alias

n. assumed name; another name; a name that has been assumed temporarily





alien

a. dissimilar, inconsistent, or opposed in nature; very different place, society, or person





alienate

v. cause to become unfriendly or hostile; transfer property or ownership; isolate or dissociate emotionally





alimony

n. payment by a husband to his divorced wife, or vice versa





allegiance

n. loyalty to a nation, sovereign, or cause; fidelity to any person or thing; devotion





alleviate

v. provide physical relief, as from pain; make easier; remove in part





alloy

n. mixture; a combination of diverse things





allure

v. attract with something desirable; be highly, often subtly attractive





aloof

a. apart; remote in manner; distant physically or emotionally; reserved and remote





altercation

n. a noisy quarrel; contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or anger; controversy





amend

v. change for the better; improve; remove faults or errors





amiss

a. out of proper order; not in perfect shape; faulty





ammunition

n. military stores or provisions; articles used in weapons, as powder, balls, shot, shells





amnesia

n. partial or total loss of memory, usually resulting from shock or illness





amnesty

n. the general pardon granted by the government, especially for political offenses





amoral

a. lacking moral sensibility; not caring about right and wrong





ample

a. more than enough in size or scope or capacity; relatively large





amulet

n. object worn, especially around the neck, as a charm against evil or injury; charm





analogy

n. the similarity in some respects; comparison based on similarity





anarchy

n. absence of governing body; state of disorder; political disorder and confusion





anchor

v. secure or fasten firmly; be fixed in place; narrate or coordinate





anecdote

n. a short account of the amusing or interesting event; short narrative; a secret story of history or biography





anemia

n. condition in which blood lacks red corpuscles; deficiency of red blood cells; lack of vitality





anesthetic

n. a substance that causes loss of sensation; producing temporary loss or impairment of feeling





anguish

n. agonizing physical or mental pain; extreme suffering





animated

a. having life or vigor or spirit; filled with activity; in the form of cartoon





animosity

n. bitter hostility; active hatred; hostile feeling or act





annex

v. append or attach; take possession of; incorporate into an existing political unit





anomaly

n. irregularity; a person or something unusual; departure from the normal or common order





anonymity

n. state of being nameless; one that is unknown or unacknowledged





anonymous

a. having no name; having an unknown or unacknowledged name





anthem

n. song of praise or patriotism; the song of devotion or loyalty





anthropologist

n. one who studies history and science of mankind





antidote

n. medicine to counteract a poison or disease; an agent that relieves or counteracts





antiquated

a. too old to be fashionable, suitable, or useful; obsolete; aged





antiseptic

n. a substance that prevents infection; a substance that restricts the growth of disease-causing microorganisms





ape

v. imitate; mimic, as an ape imitates human actions





apocalyptic

a. prophetic; involving or portending widespread devastation





apparatus

n. a group of parts that work together to perform a given function; appliance, or device for a particular purpose





appease

v. bring peace, quiet, or calm to; satisfy or relieve





application

n. close attention; work of applying something; verbal or written request for assistance





appreciate

v. be thankful for; increase in worth; be thoroughly conscious of





apprehend

v. take into custody; arrest a criminal; grasp mentally; perceive





appropriate

v. acquire; take possession of for one's own use; set apart for specific use





aptitude

n. inherent ability; quickness in learning and understanding





arbitrary

a. randomly chosen; determined by chance or impulse, and not by reason or principle





arbitrator

n. someone chosen to judge and decide the disputed issue; one having the power to make authoritative decisions





arcade

n. covered passageway, usually lined with shops; simple arched opening in a wall; vault or vaulted place





archives

n. public records; place where public records are kept





aria

n. operatic solo; a solo vocal piece with instrumental accompaniment





array

v. set out for display or use; place in orderly arrangement





arrest

v. stop or slow down; catch someone's attention; take into custody





arrogance

n. overbearing pride; haughtiness; manifest feeling of personal superiority in rank, power, or estimation





arrogant

a. arising from feeling or assumption of one's superiority toward others





arsenal

n. storage place for military equipment; a stock of weapons





articulate

a. expressing oneself easily in clear and effective language





artifact

n. the object made by human beings; inaccurate observation, effect, or result





ascertain

v. find out for certain; discover with certainty; make sure of





asinine

a. utterly stupid or silly; inanely foolish





aspire

v. seek to attain; long for; strive toward an end





assert

v. declare or state with confidence; put oneself forward boldly





assessment

n. act of judging or assessing; amount determined as payable





assumption

n. something taken for accepted as true without proof; taking over or taking possession of





assurance

n. promise or pledge; certainty; self-confidence; freedom from doubt





asteroid

n. small planet; any small celestial bodies that revolve around the sun





astral

a. relating to stars; star-shaped





astronomical

a. enormously large or extensive; relating to astronomy





astute

a. wise or keen; shrewd; with sharp intelligence





asylum

n. place of refuge or shelter; protection





atlas

n. a bound volume of maps, charts, or tables





atone

v. make amends, as for sin or fault; pay for; turn away from sin





attain

v. achieve or accomplish; gain





attentive

a. alert and watchful; considerate; thoughtful





attest

v. testify; authenticate, affirm to be true





attribute

n. essential quality; reputation; honor





audit

v. examine, verify, or correct the financial accounts of





auditorium

n. area of theater or concert hall where the audience sits





august

a. impressive; majestic; inspiring awe or admiration





authoritative

a. weighting authority; peremptory and dictatorial





autopsy

n. examination of dead body; post-mortem





auxiliary

a. helper, additional or subsidiary





avail

v. turn to the advantage of; be of service to; profit; promote





avalanche

n. a great mass of falling snow and ice





avenge

v. take vengeance for something, or on behalf of someone





aversion

n. firm dislike; turning away; avoidance of a thing, situation, or behavior because of dislike





avert

v. prevent; turn or cause to turn off or away





avid

a. greedy; eager for; marked by keen interest and enthusiasm





awe

n. mixed emotion of reverence, respect, dread, and wonder; fear, as of something evil





babble

v. talk foolishly or idly; utter meaningless confusion of words or sounds





badger

v. pester; annoy persistently; persuade through constant efforts





bait

v. harass; tease; lure, entice, or entrap





balm

n. something that relieves pain





balmy

a. mild and pleasant; fragrant





bane

n. something causes misery or death; curse; fatal injury or ruin





barb

n. sharp projection from fishhook; openly cutting remark





barren

a. desolate; fruitless and unproductive; lacking





beam

n. ray of light; a long piece of metal or wood; long piece fixed or movable in structure, machine, or tool





begrudge

v. resent; give or expend with reluctance; be envious of





belittle

v. disparage or depreciate; put down





benefactor

n. gift giver; a person who gives people or institutions financial help





beneficial

a. helpful; tending to promote physical well-being





beneficiary

n. a person entitled to benefits or proceeds of an insurance policy or will





benevolent

a. generous in providing aid to others; charitable





benign

a. kindly; favorable; not malignant





bent

a. determined to do or have





berserk

a. mentally or emotionally upset; deranged; excessively agitated





beseech

v. beg; plead with; ask for or request earnestly





bestow

v. give as a gift; present





betray

v. be unfaithful; reveal unconsciously or unwillingly





biased

a. favoring one person or side over another; prejudiced





bizarre

a. fantastic; violently contrasting; strangely unconventional in style or appearance





bland

a. lacking stimulating or mild; agreeable





blasphemy

n. act of claiming for oneself the attributes and rights of God; utterance or writing concerning God





blatant

a. flagrant; conspicuously obvious; loudly offensive





bleak

a. cold or cheerless; unlikely to be favorable





bloated

a. swollen or puffed as with water or air





bluff

n. the pretense of strength; mislead or deceive





blunt

a. having a dull edge or end; not sharp; lacking in feeling; insensitive





blurt

v. utter suddenly and impulsively





bode

v. foreshadow; indicate by signs; be an omen of; predict





bogus

a. counterfeit or fake; not authentic; not genuine





bolt

v. dash or dart off; move or jump suddenly





booming

a. deep and resonant; flourishing; thriving





boundless

a. being without boundaries or limits; infinite; vast





bourgeois

a. middle class; selfishly materialistic; dully conventional





boycott

v. refrain from buying or using





bravado

n. defiant or swaggering behavior; the pretense of courage; false show of bravery





brazen

a. having loud, usually harsh, resonant sound; shameless





breach

n. breaking of contract or duty; breaking of waves or surf; fissure or gap





brittle

a. easily broken; having little elasticity





brochure

n. pamphlet; small book usually having a paper cover





brooch

n. ornamental clasp; decorative pin worn by women





browse

v. graze; skim or glance at casually





buffet

n. table with food set out for people to serve themselves; meal at which people help themselves to food that's been set out





bureaucracy

n. over-regulated administrative system





burly

a. husky; muscular and heavily built





cache

n. hiding place; secret store of valuables or money





cadaver

n. corpse; dead body, especially one intended for dissection





calculated

a. deliberately planned; carefully thought out in advance





caliber

n. ability; degree or grade of excellence or worth; diameter of a tube or gun barrel





callous

a. emotionally hardened; unfeeling; toughened





camouflage

v. exploit natural surroundings to disguise something; conceal





candor

n. frankness; quality of being honest and straightforward in attitude and speech





canine

a. related to dogs; dog-like; affecting or derived from dogs





cant

n. inclination or slope; slanted or oblique surface; jargon, especially of thieves; dialect





capacity

n. mental or physical ability; ability to accommodate





caprice

n. sudden, unexpected fancy; impulsive change of mind





caption

n. title; chapter heading; text under illustration





carat

n. unit of weight for precious stones; a measure of fineness of gold





cardinal

a. chief; serving as an essential component





cardiologist

n. the doctor who specializes in medical problems related to heart





carnage

n. destruction of life; the savage and excessive killing of many people





carnal

a. fleshly; of or relating to body or flesh; bodily





cascade

n. small waterfall; sudden downpour





casualty

n. serious or fatal accident; someone injured or killed in an accident





catalyst

n. an agent which brings about chemical change while it remains unaffected and unchanged





catastrophe

n. calamity; disaster; state of extreme ruin and misfortune





catholic

a. broadly sympathetic; universal; related to Roman Catholic Church





caucus

n. a private meeting of members of a party to select officers or determine policy





cavalier

a. offhand or casual; given to haughty disregard of others





celebrated

a. famous; well-known; having illustrious past





censor

n. overseer of morals; official responsible for removal of objectionable or sensitive content





cerebral

a. relating to the brain or cerebrum; intellectual rather than emotional





champion

v. protect or fight for the first place





chaotic

a. in utter disorder; lacking visible order or organization





charisma

n. divine gift; great popular charm or appeal of a political leader





charlatan

n. quack; one who pretends to knowledge, skill, or importance





chaste

a. morally pure in thought or conduct; decent and modest





check

v. stop motion; curb or restrain





checkered

a. divided into squares; diversified in color; marked by great changes or shifts in fortune





chisel

n. a metal tool with a sharp edge used to cut and shape stone, wood, or metal





chivalrous

a. having qualities of ideal knight; faithful; brave





choreography

n. art of representing dances in written symbols; the arrangement of dances





chronic

a. lasting for a long period; marked by frequent recurrence, as certain diseases





chronicle

v. report or record in chronological order





cite

v. quote; adduce as an instance





civil

a. having to do with citizens or the state; courteous and polite





clairvoyant

n. having foresight; fortuneteller





clandestine

a. secret; conducted with or marked by hidden aims or methods





clasp

n. fastening device; firm grip





clemency

n. mildness, as of the weather; merciful, kind, or lenient act





clientele

n. clients of professional person; the body of customers or patrons





clip

n. a small section of filmed or filed material





clout

n. blow, especially with the fist; great influence, especially political or social





coalition

n. partnership; league; state of being combined into one body





coercion

n. use of force to get someone to obey





coin

v. make pieces of money from metal; invent or fabricate





coincidence

n. two or more things occurring at the same time by chance





collage

n. work of art put together from fragments





collateral

n. security pledged for repayment of loan





colossal

a. of extraordinary size; huge; gigantic





comatose

a. in coma; extremely sleepy; unconscious





commemorate

v. serve as a memorial to; honor the memory of with a ceremony





communal

a. held in common; of a group of people





commute

v. obtain or bargain for exemption or substitution; regularly travel from a place of residence to another place





compact

n. small and economical car; small cosmetics case





compatible

a. harmonious; having similar disposition and tastes





compelling

a. overpowering; drivingly forceful; urgently requiring attention





complement

v. complete; consummate; make perfect





compliance

n. readiness to yield; happy friendly agreement





component

n. element; ingredient; abstract part of something





compound

n. combination of two or more elements or parts





comprehensive

a. thorough; including all or everything; broad in scope





compress

v. close; squeeze or press together; contract





compromise

v. adjust or settle by making mutual concessions; endanger the interests or reputation of





compute

v. reckon; make a mathematical calculation





concede

v. admit; yield; give up physical control of another





conception

n. beginning; forming of an idea; an act of conceiving





concession

n. act of yielding; point yielded; acknowledgment or admission





concord

n. agreement of opinions; harmonious state of things





conundrum

n. riddle; difficult problem; dilemma





convene

v. cause to come together formally





convention

n. social or moral custom; formal meeting of members, representatives, or delegates; agreement between states





conventional

a. based upon traditional rules; formed by agreement or compact





converse

v. chat; talk informally; engage in a spoken exchange of thoughts





convert

n. change something into another form; transform





conviction

n. the judgment that someone is guilty of a crime; strongly held belief





cordial

a. gracious; showing warmth and friendliness





coronation

n. ceremony of crowning queen or king





corroborate

v. establish or strengthen as with new evidence or facts; support with evidence





cosmic

a. of the universe; vast





cosmopolitan

a. sophisticated; of worldwide scope





covert

a. secretive, not openly shown





curator

n. one who manages museum or library; superintendent; manager





curt

a. having been shortened; effectively cut short; rudely brief or abrupt, as in speech or manner





cynical

a. skeptical of motives of others; selfishly calculating; negative or pessimistic





dabble

v. splash liquid gently and playfully; undertake something without serious intent





dank

a. disagreeably damp or humid; cold moisture; unpleasant humidity





deadlock

n. standstill resulting from the opposition of two forces or factions; stalemate





debacle

n. sudden downfall; complete disaster





debris

n. remains of something that has been destroyed or broken up





debutante

n. young woman making formal entrance into society





decipher

v. convert code into ordinary language; read with difficulty





decorum

n. propriety in manners and conduct; good taste in manners; conventions or requirements of polite behavior





decoy

n. lure or bait; means used to mislead or lead into danger





default

n. failure to act; an option that is selected automatically





defer

v. delay till later; put off; hold back to a later time





defiance

n. refusal to yield; readiness to contend or resist





definitive

a. final; complete; precisely defined or explicit





deflect

v. turn aside; draw someone's attention away from something





defuse

v. remove the fuse of the bomb; reduce or eliminate the threat





degenerate

v. become worse; decline; fall





degradation

n. humiliation; debasement; decline to a lower condition, quality, or level





delectable

a. delightful; delicious; extremely pleasing to the sense of taste





delete

v. erase; strike out; remove or make invisible





deliberate

v. consider; think about carefully; weigh





delusion

n. false belief; mistaken or unfounded opinion





demeanor

n. conduct; management; way in which a person behaves





demented

a. insane; mad; of unsound mind; mentally ill





demise

n. end of existence or activity; termination





demolition

n. act of overthrowing, pulling down, or destroying





deploy

v. position troops in readiness for combat, as along a front or line; put into use or action





deposition

n. testimony under oath; the act of depositing, especially laying down of matter by natural process





deranged

a. disordered; especially in mind; crazy; insane





Chapter 2: Level 1 - 2





dermatologist

n. one who studies skin and its diseases





derogatory

a. expressing low opinion; disparaging; belittling





despise

v. dislike intensely; regard with contempt or scorn





detached

a. emotionally removed; calm and objective; apart from others; separate





detergent

n. cleansing agent; a substance that acts similarly to soap





determination

n. act of making or arriving at a decision; putting an end to; termination





deterrent

n. something that discourages; tending to deter





detonation

n. explosion; violent release of energy caused by chemical or nuclear reaction





devious

a. departing from the correct and accepted way; misleading; not straightforward





devise

v. form, plan, or arrange in mind; transmit or give by will





devoid

a. completely lacking; barren or empty





diabolical

a. extremely evil or cruel; expressive of cruelty or befitting hell





diagnosis

n. art of identifying disease; critical analysis of nature of something





discount

v. give a reduction in price on





discredit

v. defame; destroy confidence in; disbelieve





discrepancy

n. lack of consistency; the difference





discretion

n. knowing how to avoid embarrassment or distress; the trait of judging wisely and objectively





disdain

v. view with scorn or contempt; feel with aversion





disengage

v. release from something that holds firmly





dismantle

v. take apart; disassemble; tear down





dismiss

v. stop considering; end employment or service of; discharge; refuse to accept or recognize





dispatch

n. act of sending off something; the property of being prompt and efficient; message usually sent in haste





disperse

v. move away from each other; cause to separate; cause to become widely known





dissertation

n. formal essay; paper written by a candidate for the doctoral degree at university





distant

a. far in space or time; cold in manner





distinction

n. excellence or eminence; note or mark of difference





distraught

a. deeply agitated, as from emotional conflict; mad; insane





diva

n. female operatic singer or star





diverse

a. differing in some characteristics; various





diversion

n. act of turning aside; pastime; an activity that relaxes or entertains





diversity

n. point or respect in which things differ; the difference





divine

v. perceive intuitively; foresee future; have nature of or being a deity





divulge

v. reveal; make known to the public





doctrine

n. principles presented for belief, as by religious; the principle of law; an act of teaching; instruction





document

v. provide written evidence; record in detail





dolt

n. stupid person; person who is not very bright





don

v. put clothing on one's body





doodle

v. scribble or draw aimlessly; waste time





dormant

a. sleeping; not active but capable of becoming active





dossier

n. the file of documents on a subject; a bundle of writings or documents relating to one matter or subject





downcast

a. low in spirits; depressed; directed downward





drab

a. dull; lacking color; lacking in liveliness, charm, or surprise





drivel

n. nonsense; silly, unmeaning talk; servant; slave





droll

a. queer; amusingly odd; comical





drone

v. talk dully; buzz or murmur like a bee; make a monotonous low, dull sound





dubious

a. questionable; filled with doubt





duration

n. length of time something lasts





duress

n. forcible restraint, especially unlawfully





dwarf

v. cause to seem small; check natural growth or development of





dynamic

a. energetic; vigorously active





eccentric

a. departing from a recognized, conventional, or established norm or pattern





eclipse

v. darken; exceed in importance; outweigh





economy

n. efficient use of resources; reduction in cost; a specific type of economic system





ecstasy

n. intense joy or delight; any overpowering emotion





eddy

n. swirling current of water, air; flow in a circular current





eerie

a. suggestive of the supernatural; mysterious





egotistical

a. excessively self-centered; self-important





egregious

a. notorious; conspicuously bad or shocking





elusive

a. difficult to describe; difficult to detect or grasp by the mind





embark

v. commence; go onboard a boat or airplane; begin a journey





embezzlement

n. stealing; fraudulent appropriation of property





embody

v. give a bodily form to; represent in a bodily or material form; incorporate





embrace

v. hug; adopt or espouse; accept readily; hold close with the arms, usually as an expression of affection





emissary

n. the agent sent on a mission to represent or advance the interests of another





empathy

n. understanding and entering into another's feelings





endorse

v. acknowledge by signing a bill, draft, or other instruments; approve; support





enduring

a. lasting; surviving; long-suffering; patient





engage

v. obtain for services of; arrange for the use of; pledge or promise, especially to marry





engaging

a. charming; tending to draw attention or affections





enhance

v. make better or more attractive; increase; improve





enigma

n. puzzle; difficult problem





ensemble

n. union of parts in a whole; a coordinated outfit or costume; a coordinated set of furniture





entice

v. attract by arousing hope or desire





entity

n. real being; something that exists as a particular and discrete unit; fact of existence





entourage

n. a group of attendants or associates; one's environment





entrance

v. fill with delight or wonder; put into a trance; attract





entrepreneur

n. a person who organizes and operates a business; contractor





epic

n. a long heroic poem, or similar work of art





equilibrium

n. mental or emotional balance; state of balance of any causes, powers, or motives





equity

n. the ownership interest of shareholders in a corporate; something that is just and fair





erotic

a. pertaining to passionate love; tending to arouse sexual desire





erratic

a. no fixed or regular course; wandering





espionage

n. spying; secret observation





esteem

v. regard with respect; favorable regard





estranged

a. separated; caused to be unloved





ethnic

a. relating to races; a group of people sharing common racial, national, or religious heritage





eulogy

n. expression of praise, often on the occasion of someone's death





euphemism

n. mild expression to replace offensive, unpleasant, or embarrassing one





evasive

a. avoiding or escaping from difficulty or danger; deliberately vague or ambiguous





exacting

a. making severe demands; demanding a lot of effort, care, or attention





execute

v. put into effect; carry out the legalities of





exemplary

a. serving as a model; outstanding; typical





exempt

a. not subject to duty or obligation; not subject to taxation





exhilarating

a. invigorating and refreshing; cheering; making lively and joyful





exonerate

v. acquit; free from blame; discharge from duty





exotic

a. from another part of the world; foreign; strikingly strange or unusual





expedite

v. process fast and efficiently; execute quickly and efficiently





expertise

n. specialized knowledge; expert skill





exploit

v. make use of, sometimes unjustly





exposure

n. risk, particularly of being exposed to disease; unmasking; an act of laying something open





extent

n. extensive space or area; distance or area over which something extends; the degree to which a thing extends





extort

v. obtain from another by coercion; get money by threats





extradition

n. surrender of a prisoner by one state to another; delivery by one state to another





facade

n. front of building; superficial or false appearance





facilitate

v. help bring about; make less difficult





faction

n. a party of persons having a common end in view





faculty

n. inherent power or ability; the body of persons with specific professional powers





fancy

n. capricious notion; something many people believe that is false





farce

n. broad comedy; ridiculous parade; foolish show





fathom

v. measure the depth; come to understand





feasible

a. capable of being accomplished or brought about





felicity

n. great happiness; pleasing and appropriate manner or style





fell

a. capable of destroying; lethal





felon

n. person convicted of crime; evil person





ferret

v. drive or hunt out of hiding; uncover and bring to light by searching





fervor

n. the intensity of feeling; the warmth of feeling; intense, heated emotion





fester

v. undergo decay; infect, inflame, or corrupt;





festive

a. offering fun and gaiety; joyous; celebratory





fiasco

n. complete failure; sudden and violent collapse





fickle

a. not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind





fidelity

n. faithfulness to obligations, duties, or observances





figment

n. something invented, made up; imaginary thing





finale

n. concluding part; closing section





finesse

n. refinement and delicacy of performance; skillful, subtle handling





flag

v. become less intense; sink, or settle from pressure





flair

n. natural talent or aptitude





flaunt

v. display proudly or shamelessly; show oneself off





flick

n. light, quick blow, or touch





flinch

v. draw back, as with fear or pain





flora

n. plants of a region or era; plants considered as a group; bacteria that normally inhabit a bodily organ





flounder

v. move or act clumsily and in confusion





flourish

v. grow well; decorate with ornaments; be in a period of productivity





fluke

n. unlikely occurrence; stroke of good luck; accident





foil

v. prevent from being successful





ford

n. a place where a river can be crossed on foot; shallow place





forensic

a. relating to the use of technology in investigation and establishment of facts or evidence in court by law





formality

n. quality or condition of being formal; something done just for form's sake





formidable

a. arousing fear; threatening; difficult to undertake or defeat





forte

n. particular skill; special talent





forthright

a. directly ahead; straightforward





forum

n. a place to discuss public concerns; meeting or medium for open discussion





foster

v. rear; promote the growth of; help develop





founder

n. a person who establishes an organization, business





frail

a. physically weak; easily broken





franchise

n. a right granted by authority; right to vote; business licensed to sell a product in a particular area





frantic

a. highly excited with strong emotion; disordered or nervous activity





fret

v. cause to be uneasy; wear away





friction

n. clash in opinion; rubbing against; conflict





frigid

a. intensely cold; lacking warmth; stiff and formal in manner





frivolous

a. lacking in seriousness; not serious; relatively unimportant





fugitive

a. lasting only a short time; fleeting; elusive





fundamental

a. relating to foundation or base; elementary; primary; essential





fusion

n. union; an act of melting together by heat





futile

a. useless; having no useful result; vain





galaxy

n. large, isolated system of stars, as the Milky Way; any collection of brilliant personalities





gale

n. powerful wind; a gust of wind; emotional outburst as laughter or tears





gall

n. bitterness of feeling; vexation





garner

v. gather; store up; amass; acquire





gavel

n. hammer-like tool; small mallet used by a presiding officer or a judge





generate

v. bring into being; give rise to; produce





generic

a. of an entire group or class; general





genesis

n. coming into being of something; origin





genre

n. type or class; a kind of literary or artistic work





ghastly

a. horrible; inspiring shock; extremely unpleasant or bad





gibberish

n. unintelligible or nonsensical talk or writing; babbling





giddy

a. lacking seriousness; dizzy; frivolous and lighthearted





gist

n. a most essential or most vital part of some idea or experience; the central idea





glaring

a. shining intensely and blindingly; staring with anger or fierceness





glaze

n. thin, smooth, shiny coating; glassy film, as one over the eyes





glib

a. performed with a natural or offhand ease





glimmer

n. dim or intermittent flicker or flash of light; faint glow; shimmer





gloat

v. feel or express great, often malicious, pleasure or self-satisfaction





gloss

v. provide an extensive explanation for words or phrases





glutton

n. person who eats too much food and drink





gnome

n. dwarf; a fabled race of dwarflike creatures who live underground





goad

v. urge with a long pointed stick; give heart or courage to





gorge

v. stuff oneself; overeat; make a pig of oneself





gory

a. bloody; full by bloodshed and violence





gouge

v. force with the thumb; make a groove in





gourmet

n. a person with discriminating taste in food and wine





graduated

a. having a university degree; having completed training; having steps; arranged by grade, level, degree





graft

n. piece of transplanted tissue; a portion of a plant inserted in another plant





grandeur

n. quality or condition of being grand; magnificence





graphic

a. represented by graph; described in vivid detail; clearly outlined





grate

v. make a harsh noise; have an unpleasant effect; shred





gratify

v. give pleasure to; satisfy; indulge; make happy





gratuitous

a. given freely; unwarranted; granted without recompense; unearned





gravity

n. seriousness; solemn and dignified feeling; natural force between two massive bodies





grill

v. question severely; torture or afflict





grisly

a. frightfully; terribly; inspiring horror





grotesque

a. fantastic; comically hideous; unnatural in shape or size; abnormal





grotto

n. small cave, usually with attractive features





grove

n. group of trees smaller than a forest; orchard





grovel

v. crawl or creep on ground; remain prostrate





grueling

a. by an effort to the point of exhaustion, especially physical effort





gruesome

a. causing horror and repugnance; frightful and shocking





guise

n. outward appearance or aspect; mode of dress; false appearance





gullible

a. easily deceived or cheated; easily tricked because of being too trusting





gusto

n. nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; enthusiasm





haggle

v. argue about prices; bargain something, as over the price of something





hallowed

a. associated with divine power; made holy; worthy of religious veneration





hallucination

n. mistaken opinion or idea; delusion; illusory perception





hamper

v. put at a disadvantage; prevent the progress or free movement of





harass

v. irritate or torment persistently; wear out; exhaust





harbor

v. provide a refuge for; hide; give shelter to





hardy

a. in robust and good health; able to survive under unfavorable conditions





hazardous

a. dangerous; reckless; daring; inclined to run risks





hazy

a. slightly obscure; unclear, confused, or uncertain





headstrong

a. stubbornly and often recklessly willful; unyielding





heed

v. pay attention to; listen to, and consider





heinous

a. grossly wicked; abominable; hateful; infamous





hiatus

n. gap; interruption in duration or continuity; pause





hoax

n. an act intended to deceive or trick; practical joke





holster

n. case of leather or similar material for pistol





homage

n. special honor or respect shown or expressed publicly; tribute





hone

v. sharpen; perfect or make more intense or effective





host

n. great number; person entertaining guests





hostility

n. unfriendliness; hatred; state of being hostile





hover

v. hang about; wait nearby; remain floating





hue

n. color; appearance; particular gradation of color





humane

a. marked by kindness, mercy, or compassion





humility

n. quality or condition of being humble; a low estimate of one's self; self-abasement





husband

v. use economically; conserve; save





hybrid

n. something of mixed origin or composition





hypocrite

n. one who puts on a false appearance of virtue; one who pretends to hold beliefs





hypocritical

a. pretending to be virtuous; deceiving





hypothetical

a. based on assumptions; supposed





icon

n. religious image; idol; an essential and enduring symbol





illicit

a. illegal; unlawful; not authorized or permitted





illuminate

v. provide or brighten with light; clear up or make understandable; enlighten





illusion

n. misleading vision; being deceived by a false perception or belief





illusory

a. deceptive or tending of deceive; not real





imbalance

n. lack of balance or symmetry; disproportion





immaculate

a. spotless; flawless; absolutely clean





imminent

a. near at hand; close in time; about to occur





immune

a. resistant to; free or exempt from; not subject to





impart

v. reveal or tell; grant a share of; bestow





impartial

a. not biased; fair; showing lack of favoritism





impasse

n. road or passage having no exit; deadlock





impeccable

a. faultless; incapable of sin or wrongdoing





impediment

n. any structure that makes progress difficult; stumbling-block





impending

a. close in time; about to occur; approaching





impenetrable

a. not able to be entered; beyond understanding





imperative

n. having power command or control; critically importance; some duty that is essential and urgent





imperial

a. like an emperor; related to an empire; ruling over extensive territories





implement

v. put into effect; supply with tools





implicate

v. incriminate; involve or imply as necessary accompaniment or result





implication

n. something hinted at or suggested; an act of implying; condition of being implied





implicit

a. implied or understood though not directly expressed





implore

v. beg for urgently; make an earnest appeal





imply

v. express or indicate indirectly; signify





impostor

n. someone who assumes a false identity





impotent

a. weak; ineffective; lacking physical strength or vigor; incapable of sexual intercourse





impromptu

a. without previous preparation





improvise

v. compose, perform, or do something with little or no preparation





inadvertently

ad. unintentionally; without knowledge or intention; carelessly





inane

a. silly; senseless; unconsciously foolish; void





inanimate

a. lifeless; not animated or energetic; dull





incantation

n. singing or chanting of magic spells; magical formula; verbal charm or spell





incense

v. enrage; infuriate; cause to be extremely angry





incentive

n. something, such as the fear of punishment or the expectation of reward





incessant

a. uninterrupted; unceasing; continuing without interruption





inclined

a. tending or leaning toward; bent; having preference or tendency





incorporate

v. combine something into a larger whole; unite





incorrigible

a. not correctable; difficult or impossible to control or manage





incriminate

v. accuse of a crime or other wrongful act; suggest that someone is guilty





incumbent

a. imposed as an obligation or duty; currently holding an office





incur

v. bring upon oneself; become liable to; acquire or come into





indicative

a. suggestive; implying; serving to indicate





indifferent

a. having no particular interest or concern; being neither good nor bad





indigenous

a. native; originating where it is found





indignation

n. anger aroused by something unjust





indiscretion

n. lack of sound judgment; lack of discretion





induce

v. persuade; bring about; reason or establish by induction





indulgent

a. yielding; lenient; forbearing or tolerant





industrious

a. diligent; hard-working; busy, and laborious





ineffectual

a. insufficient to produce the desired effect; fruitless





inept

a. lacking judgment, sense, or reason; unsuited; inappropriate; foolish





inevitable

a. unavoidable; incapable of being avoided or prevented





infallible

a. incapable of failure or error





infamous

a. notoriously bad; having an exceedingly bad reputation





infantile

a. childish; relating to infants





infer

v. deduce; conclude from evidence or premises; lead to as a consequence or conclusion





infernal

a. pertaining to hell; devilish; abominable; awful





infiltrate

v. pass into or through; penetrate with hostile intent





inflated

a. exaggerated; pompous; enlarged with air or gas





informal

a. absence of ceremony; casual





ingenious

a. clever; having the inventive or cunning mind





ingrate

n. unthankful; ungrateful; one who rewards favors with enmity





inherent

a. firmly established by nature or habit





initiate

v. begin; originate; admit into membership





inkling

n. slight hint or indication; slight understanding





innate

a. possessed at birth; inborn





innovation

n. introduction of something new





innuendo

n. hint; indirect implication , usually malicious





insatiable

a. not easily satisfied; impossible to satiate or satisfy; greedy





insidious

a. spreading harmfully in a subtle manner; designed or adapted to entrap





insightful

a. showing or having insight; perceptive; having a keen intellect





insinuate

v. hint; suggest; introduce by subtle and artful means





insomnia

n. inability to sleep; lack of sleep





Chapter 3: Level 1 - 3





insubordination

n. disobedience; resistance to lawful authority





insurrection

n. rebellion; uprising; rising against civil or political authority





integral

a. essential or necessary for completeness; entire





integrity

n. quality or condition of being whole or undivided; completeness





intellect

n. ability to learn and reason; ability to think abstractly or profoundly





inter

v. place in grave or tomb; bury; place in earth and cover





interim

n. the time between one event, process; interval of time





interrogate

v. question closely; examine by questioning formally or officially





intervene

v. get involved; come, appear, or lie between two things





intimacy

n. closeness, often affectionate; privacy; familiarity





intimate

v. give to understand; imply or hint; state or make known





intimidate

v. frighten; make timid; fill with fear





intricate

a. complex; elaborate; having many complexly arranged elements





intrude

v. trespass; enter as an uninvited person





intuition

n. immediate insight; the power of knowing without reasoning





invasive

a. tending to spread aggressively; tending to invade





invincible

a. incapable of being overcome or defeated; unconquerable





invoke

v. call upon; ask for; request earnestly





invulnerable

a. incapable of injury; impossible to damage, injure, or wound





iota

n. a very small amount; a bit; ninth letter of the Greek alphabet





irate

a. feeling or showing extreme anger; enraged





ironic

a. humorously sarcastic or mocking





irony

n. expression by a deliberate contrast between apparent and intended meaning; the witty language used to insult





irrational

a. illogical; lacking reason; insane





irrelevant

a. not applicable; unrelated; having no connection with





irreparable

a. not able to be corrected or repaired





itinerary

n. plan of the trip; a guidebook for travelers





jaded

a. fatigued dulled by surfeit; exhausted; worn out; wearied





jeopardize

v. endanger; imperil; put at risk





juncture

n. a point in time, especially a critical point; joining point





justification

n. the good or just reason; condition or fact of being justified





kindle

v. build or fuel a fire; cause to glow; light up; inspire





kindred

a. related; belonging to the same family





kismet

n. destiny; fate; fortune; the will of Allah





knit

v. contract into wrinkles; grow together; form into fabric by intertwining





kudos

n. honor; praise for exceptional achievement





labyrinth

n. maze; the complex structure of interconnecting passages





laceration

n. torn, ragged wound; rough or jagged breach made by rending





lap

n. the flap that lies over another part; area of control or responsibility; upper side of the thighs of a seated person





larceny

n. unlawful taking and removing of another's personal property; theft





latent

a. present or potential but not evident or active; dormant; hidden





lateral

a. coming from the side; situated at or extending to the side





latitude

n. freedom to behave, act, or think in the way you want to; angular distance north or south of the earth's equator





lavish

a. liberal; wasteful; excessive spending





lax

a. loose and not easily controlled; lacking in rigor or strictness





leery

a. suspicious or distrustful; wary; cautious





legacy

n. a gift made by a will; something handed down from an ancestor





legend

n. explanatory list of symbols on a map; unverified story handed down from earlier times





leniency

n. mildness; quality of mercy or forgiveness, especially in the assignment of punishment as in a court case





lethal

a. deadly; causing or capable of causing death





levitate

v. float in air ,especially by magical means





levy

v. impose fine or tax; collect payment





lewd

a. lustful; indecent; suggestive of or tending to moral looseness





liability

n. something that holds one back; state of being legally obliged and responsible





liaison

n. a close relationship, connection, or link; a secret love affair





libel

n. defamatory statement; the act of writing something that smears a person's character





lineage

n. direct descent from a particular ancestor; ancestry





linger

v. be slow in leaving; continue or persist; stay





linguistic

a. relating to language or linguistics; relating to the study of language





list

v. lean or cause to lean to the side; lean over; itemize





litigation

n. lawsuit; suit at law; a judicial contest; legal proceeding in court





livid

a. lead-colored; black and blue; discolored, as from a bruise; extremely angry





loathe

v. dislike greatly; hate; cause to dislike or avoid





log

n. record of a voyage or flight; a record of day to day activities





low

v. utter sound made by cattle; make a low noise





lucid

a. easily understood; clear; intelligible





lucrative

a. profitable; producing a good profit





ludicrous

a. laughable; completely devoid of wisdom or good sense





lumber

v. move heavily or clumsily; cut down timber of





lunar

a. pertaining to the moon; affecting the moon





lurid

a. causing shock or horror; gruesome





luscious

a. pleasing or sweet to taste or smell





magnanimous

a. generous; high-minded; chivalrous





magnitude

n. extent; greatness of rank, size, or position





malicious

a. deliberately harmful; spiteful; proceeding from extreme hatred





malignant

a. injurious; tending to cause death; disposed to do evil





mammal

n. warm-blooded vertebrate having skin covered with hair





mandate

n. authoritative command or instruction; commission of authorizing to administer a territory





mandatory

a. obligatory; required or commanded by authority





manifest

a. clearly apparent to understanding; obvious





manifesto

n. public declaration of principles; statement of policy





manipulate

v. operate with one's hands; control or play upon people, forces artfully





mannered

a. artificial or affected; not natural; having or showing a certain manner





marital

a. relating to marriage; relating to husband





maritime

a. relating to, or adjacent to the sea; nautical





marked

a. noticeable or pronounced; having one or more distinguishing marks





marquee

n. large tent, often with open sides, used chiefly for outdoor entertainment; roof-like structure





marshal

v. put in order; arrange or place something in line





martial

a. relating to, or suggestive of war; connected with the armed forces





martyr

n. one who makes great sacrifices or suffers from furthering belief or principle; one who endures great suffering





masochist

n. one who obtains pleasure from receiving punishment





material

a. of, relating to, or composed of matter; concerned with the physical, not from intellectual or spiritual





maternal

a. motherly; relating to mother or motherhood





maudlin

a. tearfully sentimental; over-emotional; sickly-sentimental





maverick

n. one that refuses to abide or be independent; an unbranded range animal





maxim

n. proverb; formulation of fundamental principle or general truth





meager

a. deficient in quantity, fullness, or extent; inadequate; feeble





mediocre

a. moderate to inferior in quality; ordinary; commonplace





meditation

n. lengthy intent consideration; long and thoughtful observation; contemplation of spiritual matters





medley

n. mixture; musical composition consisting of a series of pieces





meek

a. quiet and obedient; showing patience and humility





melancholy

a. gloomy; feeling of thoughtful sadness; affected by depression





membrane

n. a thin and soft sheet of animal or vegetable tissue





memento

n. token; a reminder of past; hint, suggestion, notice, or memorial to awaken the memory





menial

a. suitable for servant; having low nature





mentor

n. wise and trusted counselor or teacher





mercenary

a. interested in making money; profit-oriented; hired for service in a foreign army





merger

n. combination; a union of two or more commercial corporations





metamorphosis

n. marked change in appearance, character, condition, or function; major transformation





metaphor

n. implied comparison; one thing conceived as representing another; symbol





metaphysical

a. without material form or substance; based on abstract reasoning; highly abstract or theoretical; supernatural





methodical

a. systematic; arranged or proceeding in regular, systematic order





meticulous

a. excessively careful; marked by extreme care in the treatment of details





militant

a. fighting or warring; having a combative character; aggressive





minute

a. extremely small; short note





mirage

n. unreal reflection; an optical illusion





misdemeanor

n. minor crime; ill behavior; evil conduct; misdeed





mishap

n. unfortunate accident; bad luck





missile

n. the weapon that is thrown or projected; rocket carrying instruments or warhead





mite

n. tiny object or creature; very small contribution or amount of money





mobile

a. movable; not fixed; fluid; unstable





mock

v. treat with ridicule or contempt; mimic; frustrate hopes of





mode

n. prevailing style; manner; a way of doing something; fashion or style





molecule

n. the smallest particle of substance, having all the properties of that substance





momentous

a. very important; of outstanding significance or consequence





momentum

n. product of a body's mass and its velocity; impelling force or strength; impetus





monarchy

n. government under a single ruler





monetary

a. of or relating to money; nation's currency; financial





moratorium

n. legal delay of payment; suspension of an ongoing or planned activity





morbid

a. caused by disease; pathological or diseased; unhealthy or unwholesome





morose

a. ill-humored; sullen; depressingly dark; gloomy; persistent





mortician

n. funeral director; one whose business is the management of funerals





motley

a. multi-colored; mixed; having elements of great variety





mundane

a. belonging to this earth or world; not ideal or heavenly; concerned with commonplaces; ordinary





mural

n. wall painting; very large image applied directly to a wall or ceiling.





muse

v. be absorbed in one's thoughts; consider or say thoughtfully





mushroom

v. multiply, grow, or expand rapidly





muster

v. call together; cause to come together; gather; summon up





musty

a. stale in odor or taste; dull; out of date; antiquated; out of use; rusty





myriad

a. of a very large or indefinite number; of ten thousand





narcissist

n. conceited person; someone in love with himself or herself; person full of egoism and pride





narrative

n. story; art, technique, or process of telling a story





natty

a. neatly or smartly dressed; neat, trim, and smart





nautical

a. relating to ships, sailors, or navigation





nefarious

a. very wicked; infamous by being extremely wicked





negligence

n. neglect; failure to take reasonable care; state or quality of being negligent





nemesis

n. someone seeking revenge; source of harm or ruin; opponent that cannot be beaten or overcome





neutral

a. impartial; not supporting one side over another





nip

v. stop something's growth; squeeze tightly between fingers; give a small sharp bite to





nirvana

n. ideal condition of rest, harmony, stability, or joy; condition of Buddha





nocturnal

a. of or relating to or occurring in the night; most active at night





nostalgia

n. homesickness; bittersweet longing for things of past





notable

a. worthy of note or notice; remarkable; important





novel

n. printed and bound book that is an extended work of fiction





novelty

n. quality of being novel; newness; something new and unusual





novice

n. beginner; person new to a field or activity





nuance

n. a subtle or slight degree of difference; a small difference in meaning





nurture

v. nourish; help grow or develop; foster





obituary

n. death notice; list of dead





objective

a. not influenced by emotions; having actual existence or reality





oblivion

n. condition or quality of being completely forgotten; official overlooking of offenses; amnesty





oblivious

a. inattentive or unmindful; lacking all memory; forgetful





obnoxious

a. causing disapproval or protest; very annoying or objectionable; offensive





obscure

v. darken; make dim or indistinct; conceal in obscurity





obsessive

a. excessive in degree or nature; preoccupying





obsolete

a. no longer useful; outmoded; antiquated





odyssey

n. long, eventful journey; extended adventurous voyage or trip





offensive

a. causing anger, displeasure, resentment, or affront





offhand

ad. without planning or thinking ahead; right away; immediately





ominous

a. threatening; foreshadowing evil or tragic developments





onset

n. beginning or early stages; offensive against an enemy





opportunist

n. one who takes advantage of any chance to achieve an end, with no regard for principles or consequences





optimist

n. one who expects a favorable or good outcome





optimum

a. most favorable or advantageous





optional

a. not obligatory; left to choice; not compulsory or automatic





ordeal

n. severe trial; a form of trial to determine guilt or innocence; a difficult or painful experience





ordinance

n. decree; authoritative command or order





orgy

n. a wild party involving excessive drinking; unrestrained indulgence; secret rite in the cults of ancient





orient

v. focus toward; determine position with reference to another point; locate to face the east





orientation

n. position relative to points of directions; course introducing a new situation





orthodox

a. traditional; conservative in belief; adhering to established faith, especially in religion





overbearing

a. expecting unquestioning obedience; overwhelming in power or significance





pact

n. written agreement between two states or sovereigns; treaty





paleontology

n. study of prehistoric life; science of former life of the globe





pan

v. criticize harshly; wash in pan; cook in pan





paradox

n. something apparently contradictory in nature; a statement that looks false but is actually correct





paragon

n. model of excellence or perfection; a peerless example





paramount

a. foremost in importance; supreme in rank





paranoia

n. psychological disorder by delusions; extreme, irrational distrust of others





parasite

n. animal or plant living on another





parched

a. dried out by heat; toasted or roasted slightly





pariah

n. social outcast; a person who is rejected from society or home





passive

a. lacking in energy or will; peacefully resistant in response to injustice





passport

n. legal document identifying the bearer as a citizen of a country and allowing to travel abroad





patent

a. open for the public to read; obvious; plain





pathetic

a. causing sadness, compassion, or pity





pathological

a. related to the study of disease; diseased or markedly abnormal; relating to or caused by disease





patronize

v. act as a patron to; support or sponsor





pedestrian

a. lacking wit or imagination; ordinary





pediatrician

n. physician or expert in children's diseases





peerless

a. having no equal; incomparable





penchant

n. strong inclination; definite liking





pendant

n. ornament, hanging from a necklace; one of a matched pair; a companion piece





perceptive

a. insightful; aware; wise; having the ability to perceive





perimeter

n. outer boundary length; closed curve bounding a plane area





perjury

n. false testimony while under oath; breach of an oath or promise





perpetual

a. everlasting; continuing without interruption





persona

n. characters in the play; one's public image or personality





personable

a. pleasing in personality or appearance; attractive





pertinent

a. having precise or logical relevance; pertaining or relating





perverse

a. stubbornly wrongheaded; directed away from what is right or good





petty

a. trivial; of small importance; very small





petulant

a. easily irritated or annoyed; unreasonably irritable or ill-tempered





phobia

n. anxiety disorder by extreme and irrational fear; dislike





phoenix

n. symbol of immortality or rebirth; a bird in Egyptian mythology that lived for 500 years





pine

v. have a desire for something or someone; yearn; grieve or mourn for





pivotal

a. being of vital or central importance; crucial





plausible

a. likely but not certain to be or become true or real





plight

n. condition or state, especially a bad state or condition





plumb

a. checking perpendicularity; exactly vertical





podium

n. a platform raised above the surrounding level to give prominence to a person on it





pore

v. gaze intently; stare; scrutinize; read or study carefully and attentively





posterity

n. descendants collectively; the race that proceeds from a progenitor; future generations





potent

a. powerful; having the power to influence or convince; having great control or authority





potential

a. existing in possibility; expected to become or be





potion

n. dose of liquid; liquid mixture; liquid medicine





practical

a. based on experience; useful





practitioner

n. someone engaged in a profession as law, medicine





pragmatic

a. practical as opposed to idealistic; concerned with the practical worth or impact of something





prank

n. acting like a clown; dress up showily; practical joke





precarious

a. uncertain; risky; dangerously lacking in security or stability





precedent

n. act or instance that may be used as an example in subsequent similar cases





precinct

n. district or division of city; place or enclosure by definite limits





precise

a. exact; clearly expressed; accurate or correct





predator

n. an animal that lives by preying on other animals; a person who robs or exploits others





predicament

n. tricky or dangerous situation; dilemma; troublesome





premise

n. a proposition upon which an argument is based; assumption; land and the buildings on it





premonition

n. forewarning; warning in advance





preposterous

a. contrary to nature, reason, or common sense; ridiculous





prerogative

n. privilege; unquestionable right; exclusive power to command





prestige

n. the impression produced by achievements or reputation; recognized distinction or importance





presumptuous

a. overconfident; going beyond what is right or proper; excessively forward





pretentious

a. intended to attract notice and impress others; making unjustified claims; overly ambitious





prevail

v. induce; be greater in strength or influence; triumph; win out





prey

n. the target of a hunt; animal hunted or caught for food





primordial

a. being or happening first in a sequence of time; original; primary; fundamental





pristine

a. uncorrupted by civilization; primitive; remaining free from dirt or decay





probe

v. explore with tools; investigate; search





problematic

a. open to doubt; unsettled; questionable; difficult to solve





prod

v. stir up; urge; goad to action; incite





prodigal

a. wasteful; reckless with money





prodigy

n. a person with exceptional talents or powers; wonder





profound

a. deep; not superficial; far-reaching





prognosis

n. forecasted course of a disease; forecast or prediction; likelihood of recovery from a disease





prolong

v. make longer; draw out; lengthen





prominent

a. conspicuous; immediately noticeable; sticking out; widely known





promote

v. help to flourish; advance in rank; publicize





prompt

v. move to act; incite; give rise to; assist with a reminder





prone

a. inclined; lying face downward; having a tendency





prosperity

n. good fortune; financial success; physical well-being





protocol

n. code of correct conduct; rules governing socially acceptable behavior; record of a transaction





prototype

n. original work used as a model; original type





provincial

a. relating to a province; limited in outlook; unsophisticated





provocative

a. arousing anger or interest; tending to provoke or stimulate





provoke

v. stir to anger; give rise to; stir to action or feeling





prowess

n. extraordinary ability; military bravery; superior skill or ability





proximity

n. state of being proximate; nearness in place, time, or relation





proxy

n. authority to act for another; agent or substitute





prude

n. excessively modest person; person excessively concerned about correct behavior





prudent

a. cautious; careful about one's own interests





prune

v. cut away; trim; reduce





psyche

n. soul; mind; spirit or soul





punitive

a. punishing; involving punishment; awarding or inflicting punishment





puny

a. insignificant; tiny; weak; of inferior size, strength





purchase

n. act or an instance of buying; something bought





purge

v. remove or get rid of something unwanted; free from blame or guilt; cleanse or purify





purse

v. gather or contract into wrinkles or folds; contract one's lips into a rounded shape





quack

n. an untrained person who pretends to be a physician; a charlatan





quail

v. a drawback, as with fear or pain; show fear





quaint

a. odd; old-fashioned; picturesque; unfamiliar or unusual in character





qualified

a. restricted; having the appropriate qualifications for an office, position, or task





quandary

n. dilemma; state of uncertainty or perplexity





quarantine

n. isolation of person or ship to prevent the spread of infection; condition of enforced isolation





quarry

n. victim; object of hunt; hunted animal





queasy

a. feeling about to vomit; causing uneasiness





quibble

n. minor objection or complaint; petty distinction





rabid

a. like a fanatic; furious; uncontrollable; extremely zealous or enthusiastic





rail

v. scold; express objections or criticisms in bitter, harsh, or abusive language





rally

v. call up or summon; call together for a common purpose





ramble

v. wander; move about aimlessly; walk about casually or for pleasure





ramp

n. slope; mobile staircase; inclined surface or roadway connecting different levels





rampant

a. unrestrained and violent; occurring without restraint





random

a. without definite purpose, plan, or aim; having no specific pattern





rant

v. talk excitedly; speak or write in an angry or violent manner





rapport

n. emotional closeness; harmony; the relationship of mutual trust or emotional affinity





rationale

n. fundamental reasons; basis; exposition of principles or reasons





rationalize

v. think in logical way; offer an excuse





rave

v. speak wildly, irrationally; speak or write with wild enthusiasm





ravenous

a. extremely hungry; voracious; eager for prey





realm

n. kingdom; domain ruled by a king or queen





Chapter 4: Level 1 - 4





reaper

n. one who harvests grain, especially a machine for harvesting grain or pulse crops





rebuttal

n. proving to be false or incorrect; response with contrary evidence





recant

v. retract a previous statement; sing over again; repeatedly utter in song





receptive

a. quick or willing to receive ideas, suggestions; capable of receiving





recipient

n. receiver; one that receives or is receptive





reciprocate

v. act, feel, or give mutually or in return; move back and forth alternately; be complementary or equivalent





recluse

n. one who lives in solitude; withdrawn from the world; reclusive





reconcile

v. correct inconsistencies; become friendly after a quarrel; become compatible or consistent





reconnaissance

n. gain information about the enemy; inspection or exploration of an area





recount

v. narrate or tell; count over again





recourse

n. one that is turned or applied to for aid or security; resort for help or protection; access or admittance





rectify

v. set right; correct by calculation or adjustment





recuperate

v. recover; return to health or strength; recover from financial loss





redundant

a. exceeding what is necessary or natural; repetitious; excessively wordy





reek

v. emit an odor; be pervaded by something unpleasant





refrain

v. abstain from; resist; hold oneself back





regal

a. of or relating to a monarch; royal; magnificent; splendid





regime

n. form of government; government in power; administration; prevailing social system or pattern





regimen

n. prescribed diet and habits; a systematic plan for therapy; governmental rule or control





reimburse

v. pay back for some expense incurred





relevant

a. pertinent; having a connection with the matter at hand





relinquish

v. give up something with reluctance; retire from; give up or abandon





relish

v. take keen or zestful pleasure in; enjoy the flavor of; give spice or flavor to





remedial

a. corrective; intended for remedy or for removal of evil; intended to improve skills





remiss

a. negligent; careless in performing duty or business





remission

n. temporary moderation of disease symptoms; cancellation of debt; lessening of intensity or degree





remorse

n. the pain of a guilty conscience; feeling of deep regret





render

v. deliver; give or make available; provide; represent in a drawing or painting





rendition

n. translation, often interpretive; performance of a musical or dramatic work





renounce

v. abandon; disown; turn away from; give up





rent

n. payment, usually of an amount fixed by contract





repel

v. force or drive back; disgust; offer resistance to; fight against





repellent

a. driving away; unattractive; inspiring aversion or distaste; resistant or impervious to something





repertoire

n. list of works of music or drama; class of compositions in a genre; range or number of skills





replica

n. copy or reproduction of a work of art





reprehensible

a. deserving blame; admonition; blameworthy





reprieve

n. temporary relief from harm or discomfort; postponement or cancellation of punishment





reproach

v. express disapproval or disappointment; bring shame upon; disgrace





reputable

a. having a good reputation; honorable





rescind

v. cancel; make void; repeal or annul





resentment

n. indignation; a deep sense of injury; strong displeasure





reserve

n. lack of enthusiasm; skeptical caution; something saved for future use; self-restraint in expression





residue

n. the remainder of something after removal of parts or a part; balance





resigned

a. accepting one's fate; unresisting; patiently submissive; showing hopelessness





resilient

a. elastic; having the power of springing back or recover readily





resolution

n. determination; resolving to do something; a formal statement of a decision





resolve

v. make a firm decision about; find a solution to





respiration

n. breathing; the process of inhaling and exhaling; oxidative process occurring within living cells





restraint

n. moderation or limitation; controlling force; loss of freedom; control of feelings





retain

v. keep; maintain possession of; hire by payment of a fee; keep in mind; remember





retaliation

n. action taken in return for an injury or offense; revenge





retiring

a. shy and reserved; modest





retract

v. withdraw; take back; draw back or in





retribution

n. something justly deserved; recompense; compensation; punishment for offenses





retrieve

v. recover; find and bring in; get back





revert

v. return to a former condition, practice, subject, or belief; backslide; turn back to





revoke

v. void or annul by recalling, withdrawing, or reversing; cancel; retract





rhetoric

n. art or study of using language effectively and persuasively; insincere language





rhetorical

a. relating to skill of using language effectively and persuasively; insincere in language





riddle

v. pierce with numerous holes; perforate; permeate or spread throughout





rider

n. amendment or clause added to a legislative bill; one that rides, especially one who rides horses





rift

n. a shallow area in a waterway; break in friendly relations; narrow fissure in a rock





rig

v. manipulate dishonestly; make or construct in haste





rigid

a. stiff and unyielding; strict; not flexible





robust

a. vigorous; full of health and strength; vigorous





roster

n. list, especially of names





rousing

a. lively; vigorous; inducing enthusiasm or excitement; stirring





rubble

n. broken fragments; irregular pieces of rock





ruddy

a. reddish color; healthy-looking





rudimentary

a. relating to basic facts or principles; being in the earliest stages of development; incipient





rue

v. feel regret, remorse, or sorrow for; mourn





rummage

v. make an energetic, usually hasty search





ruse

n. trick; use of artifice or trickery; deceptive maneuver, especially to avoid capture





rustic

a. typical of country life or country people; awkwardly simple and provincial; lacking refinement or elegance





ruthless

a. pitiless; cruel; having no compassion or pity; merciless





sadistic

a. inclined to cruelty; deriving pleasure from inflicting pain on another





saga

n. any legend; long detailed report; Scandinavian myth





sage

n. one celebrated for wisdom, experience, and judgment; various plants of the genus Salvia





salvage

v. save from loss or destruction; rescue of a ship; save for further use





sanctimonious

a. excessively or hypocritically pious; possessing sanctity; sacred; holy; saintly; religious





sanctuary

n. place of refuge or asylum; shrine; holy places, such as a church, temple, or mosque





sap

v. diminish; undermine the foundations; dig





sarcasm

n. a cutting, often ironic remark intended to wound; stinging rebuke; a form of humor by mocking with irony





satellite

n. small body revolving around a larger one; subordinate





savor

v. appreciate fully; enjoy or relish; have a distinctive flavor, smell, or quality





scale

v. climb up or over; alter according to a standard; estimate or measure; remove in layers





scapegoat

n. someone who bears the blame for others





scenario

n. screenplay; outline or model of an expected sequence of events





scoff

v. mock; ridicule; show or express scorn; eat quickly and greedily





scourge

n. the whip used to inflict punishment; severe punishment





scuffle

v. shuffle; fight or struggle confusedly at close quarters; wrestle in a rough fashion





scurry

v. go with light running steps; move about or proceed hurriedly





seasoned

a. experienced, especially in terms of a profession or a hobby; aged or processed





sect

n. a separate religious body; faction united by common interests or beliefs





sedate

a. composed, and dignified in character or manner





seedy

a. disreputable; tired or sick; having many seeds





seismic

a. caused by an earthquake or earth vibration; earthshaking





sensual

a. physical rather than spiritual or intellectual; affecting any of senses or sense organ; sensory





sentinel

n. one that keeps guard; soldier stationed as a guard





serenity

n. the calmness of mind; quietness; stillness; peace





sever

v. cut off from a whole; set or keep apart; divide or separate





severity

n. extreme rigor; strictness; rigidity; harshness





sham

v. pretend; put on a false appearance of; feign





shambles

n. wreck; scene or condition of complete disorder or ruin





sheer

a. very thin or transparent; very steep; absolute or pure





shimmer

v. shine with a weak or fitful light; glimmer intermittently





shoddy

a. made of or containing inferior material; not genuine; of low rank; poor quality or craft





shrewd

a. clever; characterized by keen awareness, sharp intelligence





shroud

v. hide from view; wrap for burial; shut off from sight; shelter





sibling

n. brother or sister; member of a family born to the same parents





simian

a. like an ape or monkey





singular

a. unique; extraordinary; being only one





sinister

a. suggesting or threatening evil





slag

n. residue by smelting metal ore; waste material from a coal mine; scum that forms on the surface of molten metal





slander

n. defamation; false and malicious statement or report about someone





sleeper

n. something originally of little value becomes very valuable; unexpected hit; one that sleeps





slight

n. almost no; very little; deliberate discourtesy





slither

v. glide or slide like a reptile; slip and slide, as on a loose or uneven surface





sluggish

a. lazy; with little movement; very slow





smirk

n. smile expressing scorn instead of pleasure; smile in affected, often offensively self-satisfied manner





sobriety

n. moderation, especially regarding indulgence in alcohol; seriousness; gravity in manner or treatment





solace

n. comfort or relieve in sorrow, misfortune, or distress





solitude

n. state of being alone; seclusion; lonely or secluded place





sophisticated

a. wide-ranging knowledge; intricate; intellectually appealing





sordid

a. filthy; unethical or dishonest; dirty; foul; morally degraded





sovereign

a. having supreme rank or power; self-governing; excellent; independent





spat

n. minor dispute; brief quarrel





spatula

n. a broad-bladed instrument used for spreading or mixing





spawn

v. lay eggs; produce offspring in large numbers





spectrum

n. the colored band produced when a beam of light passes through a prism; a range of values





splice

v. fasten together; join at the ends; join by interweaving strands





spontaneity

n. naturalness; freedom from constraint; happening or arising without external cause; self-generated





squander

v. spend wastefully; fail to take advantage of; lose a chance for





squat

a. stocky; short and thick; low and broad





stamina

n. physical or moral strength to resist or withstand illness; enduring strength and energy





static

a. having no motion; being at rest; fixed; stationary





statute

n. a law enacted by the legislature; decree or edict, as of a ruler





stealth

n. avoiding detection by moving carefully; acting in a covert way





steep

v. soak; make thoroughly wet





stellar

a. outstanding; principal; of or consisting of stars





stem

v. stop the flow of a liquid; make headway against





stereotype

n. fixed and unvarying representation; conventional and oversimplified conception





stint

v. be thrifty; restrict or limit, as in amount or number





strut

v. display in order to impress others; swagger; walk with a lofty proud gait





studied

a. knowledgeable; resulting from deliberation and careful thought





sublime

a. of high spiritual, moral, or intellectual worth; characterized by nobility; majestic





submissive

a. yielding; inclined or ready to submit





subpoena

n. written order to require appearance in court to give testimony





subsequent

a. following in time or order; succeeding; later





subside

v. settle down; sink to a lower level or form depression; wear off or die down





substantial

a. fairly large; in essentials; material; true or real; not imaginary; solidly built





subterranean

a. hidden; secret; situated or operating beneath the earth's surface; underground





subtlety

n. perceptiveness; intellectual activity; delicacy; quality or state of being subtle





succulent

a. full of juicy; full of richness; highly interesting or enjoyable; delectable





sully

v. place under suspicion or cast doubt upon; make dirty, as by exposure to air





summation

n. act of finding the total; summary; act or process of adding





summit

n. utmost height; the highest point of a mountain





superficial

a. trivial; of little substance; involving a surface only





supple

a. flexible; moving and bending with ease





suppress

v. put down by force or authority; overwhelm; keep from being revealed





surly

a. rude; sullenly ill-humored; gloomy; threatening, as of weather conditions





surrogate

n. one that takes position of another; substitute





surveillance

n. watching; inspection; close observation of a person or group; supervision





susceptible

a. easily influenced; having little resistance, as to a disease; receptive to





sustain

v. admit as valid; keep in existence; lengthen or extend in duration or space





suture

n. joining two surfaces or edges together along a line by sewing; the material used in sewing





swagger

v. behave arrogantly or pompously; walk with a swaying motion





swarm

n. dense moving crowd; a large group of honeybees





swerve

v. wander or stray; turn aside sharply; climb or move upward





swill

v. drink greedily; flood with water, as for washing





symmetry

n. arrangement of parts so that balance is obtained; congruity





table

v. set resolution or proposal for future consideration; hold back to a later time





taint

v. contaminate; cause to lose purity; affect with or as if with a disease; corrupt morally





talisman

n. charm to bring good luck and avert misfortune; something that apparently has magic power





tangible

a. able to be touched; real or concrete; palpable





tanner

n. a person who turns animal hides into leather; craftsman who tans skins and hides; sixpence





tantrum

n. a burst of ill humor; display of temper; ill-natured caprice





tarantula

n. any large, hairy, chiefly tropical spider





tawdry

a. cheap in nature or appearance; tastelessly showy; shameful or indecent





tedious

a. tiresome because of length, slowness, or dullness; progressing very slowly





temper

v. moderate; tone down or restrain; bring to the desired consistency; adjust finely





temperament

n. person's normal manner of thinking, behaving, or reacting; tendency to become irritable or angry





tempo

n. beat or speed of music; rate or rhythm of activity; pace





temporal

a. not lasting forever; limited by time; secular or civil; of the material world; worldly





tenacious

a. sticking together; stubbornly unyielding; holding together firmly





tender

v. offer formally; extend; propose a payment





tentative

a. hesitant; not fully worked out or developed; experimental; not definite or positive





tenure

n. holding of an office; a period during which something is held; status of holding position on a permanent contract





termination

n. end of something in time or space; result or outcome; conclusion





testy

a. irritated or impatient; easily annoyed; peevish





tether

v. tie with rope; fasten or restrict with rope or chain





theoretical

a. not practical or applied; hypothetical; of or based on a theory





therapeutic

a. curative; having or exhibiting healing powers; relating to the healing art





thermal

a. relating to or caused by heat; designed to help retain heat





thrive

v. make steady progress; prosper; flourish





tirade

n. extended scolding; long angry or violent speech





titanic

a. enormous scope, power, or influence; huge or colossal





title

n. right or claim to possession; a mark of rank; the name of a book or film





tonic

n. something producing physical, mental, or emotional vigor





torso

n. body excluding head and neck and limbs





touchstone

n. the stone used to test the fineness of gold alloys; excellent quality used to test excellence or genuineness of others





touchy

a. tending to take offense with slight cause; oversensitive; requiring special tact or skill in handling





tout

v. advertize in strongly positive terms; praise excessively; show off





toxic

a. poisonous; caused by a toxin or other poison





tract

n. the expanse of land or water; a system of organs that perform a specialized function; leaflet or pamphlet





trajectory

n. path of other moving body through space; chosen or taken a course





transient

a. momentary; temporary; staying for a short time





transition

n. going from one state of action to another





transparent

a. easily detected; permitting light to pass through freely





transport

v. carry from one place to another; carry away; deport





trapping

n. outward decorations; ornamental covering or harness for horse





traumatic

a. relating to injury caused by violence; adapted to cure of wounds; vulnerary





travesty

n. comedy characterized by improbable situations; treatment aimed at making something appear ridiculous





trek

n. travel; journey or leg of a journey, especially when slow or difficult





trespass

v. unlawfully enter boundaries of some else's property; commit an offense or a sin





tribute

n. payment in money made by one ruler or nation; tax; the mark of respect; praiseworthy quality





trigger

v. cause something to happen; set off





trite

a. repeated too often; overfamiliar through overuse; worn out by using





trivial

a. unimportant; of little significance or value; ordinary; commonplace





trough

n. container for feeding farm animals; the lowest point of a wave or business cycle





tryst

n. secret meeting; agreement, as between lovers, to meet at a certain time and place





tundra

n. rolling, treeless plain in Siberia and arctic North America





turbulence

n. state of violent agitation; eddying motion; an unstable flow of a liquid or gas; violent disturbance and disorder





turmoil

n. state of extreme confusion or agitation; commotion or tumult





tycoon

n. wealthy and powerful businessperson or industrialist; magnate





typhoon

n. tropical cyclone occurring in the western Pacific; a violent whirlwind





tyranny

n. oppression; cruel government; office or authority of an absolute ruler; absolute power





ulterior

a. beyond or outside of immediate interest; coming at a subsequent time or stage





ultimate

a. final; being the last or concluding; fundamental; elemental; extreme





unbridled

a. violent; not restrained or controlled





uncanny

a. strange; mysterious; peculiarly unsettling, as if of supernatural origin or nature





unconscionable

a. lacking conscience; greatly exceeding bounds of reason or moderation





underlying

a. lying under or beneath something; basic; implicit; taking precedence; prior





undermine

v. weaken by wearing away base or foundation; injure or impair; dig a mine or tunnel beneath





unearth

v. bring up out of the earth; dig up; bring to public notice; uncover





uninhibited

a. open and unrestrained; free from traditional social or moral constraints





unique

a. without an equal; being the only one of its kind





universal

a. affecting all; general; present everywhere; relating to the entire world or all within the world; worldwide





unmitigated

a. unrelieved or immoderate in intensity or severity; without exception; absolute





unprecedented

a. having no previous example; novel; unparalleled





unravel

v. undo or ravel knitted fabric of; separate and clarify; solve





unrequited

a. unanswered; not returned; not reciprocated; not repaid





unscathed

a. not harmed or damaged in any way; untouched





unseemly

a. grossly improper; indecent; in poor taste





unwitting

a. not intended; not knowing; unaware; ignorant





valid

a. logically convincing; sound; legally acceptable





validate

v. confirm; ratify; declare or make legally valid





valor

n. bravery; courage, and boldness, as in battle





vampire

n. ghostly beings that suck the blood of the living; person, such as extortionist, who preys upon others





velocity

n. rapidity or speed of motion; swiftness





vendetta

n. feud in which members of opposing parties murder each other; blood bitter quarrel





vendor

n. seller; provider; vending machine





venom

n. poison; poisonous secretion of animals, such as snake or spider; spite





vent

n. small opening; means of escape or release; outlet; hole for the escape of gas or air





verge

n. extreme edge or margin; border; enclosing boundary; space enclosed by such a boundary





veritable

a. being without question; not counterfeit or copied; agreeable to truth or fact





vex

v. annoy; disturb, especially by minor irritations; be a mystery or bewildering to





viable

a. practical or workable; capable of maintaining life; capable of continuing effectiveness





vie

v. strive for victory or superiority; contend; compete





vigilance

n. watchfulness; wakefulness; a process of paying close and continuous attention





vigor

n. active strength of body or mind; imaginative, lively style, especially style of writing; the exertion of force





vindictive

a. seek revenge or intended for revenge; showing malicious will





viper

n. extremely poisonous or injurious snake; a person regarded as malicious





virtual

a. existing or resulting in essence or effect though not in fact; existing in mind, especially as a product of imagination





virtue

n. goodness, moral excellence; good quality





virus

n. disease communicator; something that poisons one's soul or mind; program for unwanted actions in computer





visionary

a. produced by imagination; characterized by vision or foresight; imaginary; idealistic





vital

a. full of life; animated; necessary to continued existence; living or breathing





volatile

a. tending to vary often or widely, as in price; inconstant or fickle; tending to violence





volition

n. act of making a conscious choice; power or faculty of choosing





volley

n. flight of missiles; a round of gunshots; tennis return made by hitting the ball before it bounces





vortex

n. whirlwind; whirlpool; center of turbulence; spiral motion of fluid within a limited area





vulnerable

a. susceptible to wounds; capable of being wounded or hurt





waffle

v. speak or write evasively; pause or hold back in uncertainty or unwillingness





waive

v. give up temporarily; yield; give up voluntarily; defer





wake

n. trail of a ship or other object through water; a path of something that has gone before





wallow

v. roll in water, snow, or mud; indulge in; move with difficulty clumsily; plunge into a course or condition





wan

a. having a pale or sickly color; unnaturally pale, as from physical or emotional distress





warrant

n. guarantee; assurance by the seller; authorization or certification





wary

a. very cautious; on guard; watchful





wax

v. increase gradually in size, number, strength, or intensity; show a progressively larger illuminated area





weather

v. endure or survive the effects of wind, rain, or other forces





whiff

n. brief, passing odor carried in the air; trace to hint; a slight, gentle gust of air





wield

v. handle with skill; exercise effectively; have power over; a rule or manage





willful

a. intentional; headstrong; said or done on purpose; deliberate





withdrawn

a. not readily approached; remote; not friendly or sociable; aloof; emotionally unresponsive and detached





wither

v. shrivel; decay; lose freshness, vigor, or vitality; loss of moisture





withhold

v. refuse to give; refrain from giving, granting, or permitting; deduct from employee's salary





withstand

v. stand up against; successfully resist; oppose with force or resolution





witless

a. foolish; idiotic; lacking intelligence or wit





woe

n. deep, inconsolable grief; affliction; suffering; deep distress or misery, as from grief





worldly

a. relating to man and the planet earth, physical as opposed to spiritual; experienced in human affairs





worst

v. be better than; defeat; gain the advantage over





wrath

n. forceful, often vindictive anger; fury; just punishment of an offense or crime





wrench

v. twist or turn suddenly and forcibly; move, extract, or force-free by pulling violently





yen

n. a strong desire or inclination; yearning or craving





yield

v. give in; surrender; give forth a natural product; be productive





yoke

v. join together, unite; harness a draft animal to; join securely; force into heavy labor





yore

n. in time past; long ago; in old time





zephyr

n. gentle breeze; west wind; any of various soft light fabrics, yarns, or garments





Chapter 5: Level 2 - 1





abate

v. subside; decrease; become less in amount or intensity





abbreviate

v. make shorter; reduce to shorter form intended to represent full form, as for word or phrase





aberrant

n. abnormal; markedly different from an accepted norm





abeyance

n. suspended action; temporary cessation or suspension





abhor

v. fill with horror and loathing; horrify; hate





abolish

v. cancel; put an end to; destroy completely





abominable

a. detestable; extremely unpleasant; very bad





aboriginal

a. being the first of its kind in a region; primitive; native





abortive

a. unsuccessful; failing to accomplish an intended objective; fruitless





abstain

v. refrain; hold oneself back voluntarily from an action or practice





abstruse

a. obscure; profound; difficult to understand





abundant

a. plentiful; possessing riches or resources





abut

v. border upon; adjoin; touch or end at one end or side; lie adjacent





abysmal

a. bottomless; very profound; limitless; very bad





accede

v. agree; give consent, often at the insistence of another; concede





accentuate

v. emphasize; stress; pronounce with stress or accent; mark with an accent





acclaim

v. applaud; announce with great approval





accrue

v. increase, accumulate, or come about as a result of growth; accumulate over time





acoustics

n. science of sound; the quality that makes a room easy or hard to hear in





acquiesce

v. assent; agree without protesting





acrid

a. unpleasantly sharp or bitter to taste or smell; bitterly pungent





actuate

v. put into motion or action; activate





acumen

n. mental keenness; quickness of perception





addendum

n. something added or to be added, especially a supplement to a book





adherent

n. a person who adheres; one who follows or upholds a leader, party, cause





admonish

v. warn; counsel someone against something to be avoided





adorn

v. enhance or decorate with or as if with ornaments





adroit

a. skillful and adept under pressing conditions





advent

n. coming or arrival, especially of something extremely important





advocacy

n. support; active pleading on behalf of something





affable

a. easily approachable; warmly friendly





affinity

n. natural attraction, liking, or feeling of kinship; relationship by marriage





affirmation

n. positive assertion; confirmation; solemn pledge by one who refuses to take an oath





affront

n. insult; offense; intentional act of disrespect





aggregate

v. gather into a mass, sum, or whole; amount to





aghast

a. struck by shock, terror, or amazement





agility

n. mentally quick; moving quickly and lightly





agitate

v. cause to move with violence or sudden force; upset; disturb





agitation

n. anxiety; extreme emotional disturbance





agrarian

a. pertaining to land or its cultivation; relating to agricultural or rural matters





alchemy

n. medieval chemistry; magical or mysterious power or process of transforming





alcove

n. nook; small, recessed section of a room





allege

v. state without proof; assert to be true





allocate

v. assign; distribute according to plan





alloy

v. combine; mix; make less pure; lessen or moderate





allude

v. refer casually or indirectly, or by suggestion





allusion

n. indirect reference; symbolical reference or comparison; metaphor





aloft

ad. in or into a high place; high or higher up





altruistic

a. unselfishly generous; concerned for others





ambience

n. particular environment or surrounding influence; an atmosphere of the environment





ambiguous

a. unclear or doubtful in meaning





amenable

a. responsive to advise or suggestion; responsible to a higher authority; willing to comply with; agreeable





amenities

n. convenient features; courtesies





amiable

a. good-natured and likable; lovable; warmly friendly





amicable

a. exhibiting friendliness or goodwill; not quarrelsome





amorous

a. moved by sexual love; loving





amphibian

a. able to live both on land and in water





amputate

v. cut off part of the body, especially by surgery; prune





analogous

a. comparable; similar or alike





anarchist

n. a person who seeks to overturn established government; advocate of abolishing authority





annals

n. a chronological record of the events of successive years





annihilate

v. destroy completely; reduce to nonexistence





annuity

n. annual payment of allowance or income; periodical payment, amounting to a fixed sum in each year





annul

v. make or declare void or invalid; reduce to nothing





anoint

v. apply oil or similar substance to; put oil on during religious ceremony as a sign of sanctification or consecration.





anomalous

a. deviating from normal or common order, form, or rule





antagonism

n. active resistance; condition of being an opposing principle, force, or factor





antithesis

n. contrast; direct contrast; opposition





apathy

n. lack of interest, or the attitude of not caring resulting from it; the indifference





aperture

n. opening; diameter of such an opening; hole





apex

n. highest point; vertex; summit; climax





apocryphal

a. untrue; of questionable authorship or authenticity; erroneous; fictitious





apparition

n. ghostly figure; sudden or unusual sight; appearance; state of being visible





appellation

n. name; title; the act of naming; the act of appealing for aid, sympathy





apprehension

n. fearful or uneasy anticipation of the future; the act of seizing or capturing; understanding





approbation

n. expression of warm approval; praise





apropos

a. with reference or regard; in respect





aquatic

a. consisting of, relating to, or being in the water





aquiline

a. curved or hooked like an eagle's beak





arable

a. fit for growing crops, as by plowing





arbiter

n. person with power to decide a dispute; judge





arboretum

n. a place where different tree varieties are exhibited





arcane

a. secret; mysterious; known only to the initiated





archaeology

n. study of artifacts and relics of early humankind





archaic

a. no longer current or applicable; antiquated





archipelago

n. group of closely located islands





ardent

a. displaying or by strong enthusiasm or devotion; passionate





arduous

a. demanding great effort or labor; difficult





arid

a. dry; lacking moisture, especially having insufficient rainfall to support trees or plants





armada

n. a fleet of warships; a large group of moving things





aromatic

a. fragrant or sweet-smelling; caused by fragrant odor





arousal

n. act of awaking from sleep; arousing from what is like sleep





arrears

n. being in debt; unpaid, overdue debt or an unfulfilled obligation





arroyo

n. deep gully; a dry gulch; brook or creek; watercourse





artifice

n. subtle but base deception; trickery; cleverness or skill; ingenuity





artless

a. free of artificiality; natural; open and honest





ascendancy

n. superiority or decisive advantage; domination





ascetic

a. leading a life of self-discipline and self-denial; austere





ascribe

v. inscribe or dedicate; attribute to a specified cause, source, or origin; assign as a quality





askew

ad. turned or twisted toward one side; at an angle





assail

v. assault; attack with or as if with violent blows





assent

v. express agreement to what is alleged or proposed; accept





assiduous

a. constant in application or attention; diligent; unceasing or persistent





assimilate

v. incorporate and absorb into mind; make similar; cause to resemble





assuage

v. ease or lessen pain; satisfy or appease





asunder

ad. into separate parts or pieces; apart





atrocity

n. brutal deed; atrocious condition, quality, or behavior; monstrousness





atrophy

n. wasting away; decrease in size; reduction in the functionality of an organ caused by disease





attribute

v. relate to particular cause or source; ascribe; explain





audacious

a. fearlessly, often recklessly daring; bold





auditory

a. of or relating to hearing, the organs of hearing, or the sense of hearing





augment

v. make greater, as in size, extent, or quantity





augury

n. sign of something coming; art or practice of foretelling events by signs or omens





auspicious

a. attended by favorable circumstances; marked by success; prosperous





austere

a. strict or severe in the discipline; severely simple and unornamented





avarice

n. greediness for wealth; the insatiable desire to gain





aver

v. declare to be true; affirm





averse

a. reluctant; disinclined; turned away or backward; unwilling





aviary

n. large cage, building, or enclosure in which birds are reared or kept





avow

v. declare openly; acknowledge openly, boldly, and unashamedly





awry

ad. in a position that is turned toward one side; away from the correct course





axiom

n. self-evident truth requiring no proof





azure

a. sky blue; light purplish-blue





baffle

v. frustrate as by confusing or perplexing; impede force or movement of





baleful

a. portending evil; harmful in intent or effect.





balk

v. stop short and refuse to go on; refuse obstinately or abruptly





ballast

n. heavy substance used to add stability or weight





banal

a. obvious and dull; commonplace; lacking originality





bandy

v. discuss lightly or glibly; exchange words heatedly





bard

n. poet, especially lyric poet





baroque

a. complex or bizarre, especially in ornamentation; irregular in shape





barrage

n. artificial obstruction; a heavy curtain of artillery fire; rapid, concentrated discharge of missiles





barricade

n. hastily put together defensive barrier; obstacle





bask

v. luxuriate; take pleasure in warmth





bastion

n. fortress; projecting part of fortification; well-fortified position





bauble

n. small, showy ornament of little value; child's plaything or toy





bawdy

a. indecent; obscene; humorously coarse





beeline

n. direct, quick route; direct, straight course





beget

v. produce; give rise to





beguile

v. mislead; delude; deceive by guile





behemoth

n. huge creature; something enormous in size or power





belabor

v. discuss repeatedly; attack verbally; work hard upon





belated

a. having been delayed; done or sent too late





belie

v. contradict; give a false impression





belligerent

a. inclined or eager to fight; aggressive





benediction

n. blessing; invocation of divine blessing; expression of good wishes





bequeath

v. leave to someone by a will; hand down





berate

v. rebuke or scold angrily and at length





bereavement

n. grievous loss; particularly, the loss of a relative or friend by death





bereft

a. deprived of; lacking; desolate because of loss





beset

v. attack from all sides; trouble persistently; hem in





besiege

v. surround with armed forces; harass with requests





besmirch

v. soil, smear so as to make dirty or stained





bicker

v. engage in a petty, bad-tempered quarrel





bigotry

n. stubborn intolerance; excessive zeal or warmth in favor of a party, sect, or opinion





bilious

a. suffering from indigestion; appearing as if affected by disorder; sickly





bilk

v. defraud or cheat; frustrate or disappoint; evade or escape from





blanch

v. cause to turn white or become pale; take color from; bleach





blithe

a. gay; joyous; carefree and lighthearted





blunder

n. serious mistake typically caused by ignorance or confusion





bluster

v. blow in heavy gusts; speak in a loudly arrogant or bullying manner





bohemian

a. unconventional in an artistic way





boisterous

a. rough and stormy; loud, noisy, and lacking in restraint or discipline





bolster

v. support or prop up with or as if with a long narrow pillow or cushion





boon

n. blessing; benefit bestowed, especially in response to a request





boorish

a. rude and clumsy in behavior; ungentlemanly; awkward in manners





bountiful

a. abundant; graciously generous; giving freely and generously





braggart

n. boaster; one given to loud, empty boasting; a very talkative person





brawn

n. solid and well-developed muscles, especially of the arms and legs





breadth

n. measure or dimension from side to side; width; extent





brevity

n. quality or state of being brief in duration; concise expression





broach

v. introduce; bring up for discussion or debate; announce





browbeat

v. bully; intimidate; discourage or frighten with threats





brunt

n. main impact or shock; main burden





brusque

a. abrupt and curt in manner or speech; rudely abrupt, unfriendly





bullion

n. gold and silver in the form of bars





bulwark

n. earthwork or other strong defense; a person who defends





bungalow

n. small house or cottage usually having a single story and attic





buoyant

a. able to float; cheerful and optimistic





burlesque

v. give an imitation that ridicules; imitate mockingly or humorously





burnish

v. make shiny by rubbing; polish





bustle

v. move or cause to move energetically and busily; teem





buxom

a. healthily plump and ample of figure; full-bosomed; vigorous; jolly





calamity

n. the event that brings terrible loss, lasting distress, or severe affliction; disaster; misery





calligraphy

n. beautiful writing; excellent penmanship





calumny

n. false statement maliciously made to injure another's reputation; slander





camaraderie

n. good-fellowship; companionship; close friendship in friends or teammates





cameo

n. piece of jewelry; a small scale used as a jewel for adornment; famous actor's special appearance in a minor role





canter

n. slow gallop; moderate running pace of horse





canvass

v. determine votes; examine carefully or discuss thoroughly; scrutinize





capacious

a. capable of containing a large quantity; spacious or roomy





capricious

a. fickle; impulsive and unpredictable; apt to change opinions suddenly





caricature

n. a representation that is deliberately exaggerated to produce a comic effect





carnivorous

a. eating or feeding on flesh; predatory





catapult

n. slingshot; hurling machine; military machine for hurling missiles, used in ancient and medieval times





cataract

n. large or high waterfall; eye abnormality





cater

v. supply what is needed or desired; provide food professionally for a special occasion





catharsis

n. purging or cleansing of any passage of body





causal

a. having relationship, link, etc. between two things in which one causes the other





caustic

a. capable of burning, corroding, dissolving, or eating away by chemical action





cavalcade

n. ceremonial procession or display; succession or series





celerity

n. swiftness of action or motion; speed





celestial

a. relating to the sky or the heavens; supremely good; god or angel





celibate

a. unmarried; abstaining from sexual intercourse





censure

v. expression of strong disapproval or harsh criticism; blame





cerebration

n. act of cerebrating; thinking, mental activity





cessation

n. bringing or coming to an end; cease





cession

n. yielding to another; ceding or surrendering





chafe

v. wear away or irritate by rubbing; make sore by rubbing; annoy; vex





chaff

n. trivial or worthless matter; thin, dry bracts or scales, especially





chagrin

n. anxiety caused by humiliation or injured pride; disappointment





chameleon

n. lizard that changes color in different situations





chasm

n. deep opening in the earth surface





chassis

n. rectangular frame attached working parts, as of an automobile





chastise

v. punish, as by beating; criticize severely; rebuke





chauvinist

n. a person with prejudiced belief in the superiority of own kind





chide

v. scold mildly so as to correct or improve; express disapproval





chimerical

a. fantastically improbable; highly unrealistic; imaginative





cipher

n. secret code; an Arabic numeral or figure; a number





circuitous

a. being or taking a roundabout, lengthy course; going round in a circuit; not direct





circumspect

a. carefully aware of all circumstances; cautious





circumvent

v. surround an enemy; enclose or entrap; beat by cleverness and wit





cistern

n. reservoir or water tank; a vessel to hold water for household uses





clamor

n. noise; loud outcry; expression of discontent or protest





clapper

n. a metal striker that hangs inside a bell and makes sound by hitting side; someone who applauds





claustrophobia

n. an abnormal fear of being in narrow or enclosed spaces





cleave

v. split with or as if with a sharp instrument; pierce or penetrate; remain faithful to





cleft

n. crack or crevice; a split or indentation between two parts, as of the chin





clench

v. close tightly; grasp or grip tightly; fasten with a clinch





clique

n. small exclusive group of friends or associates





cloister

n. place, especially a monastery or convent, devoted to religious seclusion; a secluded, quiet place





clump

n. cluster or close group of bushes, trees; mass; the sound of heavy treading





coddle

v. treat gently; cook in water just below boiling point





codicil

n. supplement or appendix, especially to a will





cognitive

a. knowing or perceiving; part of mental functions that deals with logic





cohesion

n. a tendency to keep together





coiffure

n. hairstyle; head-dress; manner of arranging or dressing hair





collaborate

v. work together, especially in a joint intellectual effort





collusion

n. a secret agreement for any illegal purpose; conspiracy





combustible

a. capable of igniting and burning; easily aroused or excited





comely

a. pleasing or attractive to the eye; handsome; graceful





comeuppance

n. rebuke; punishment or retribution that one deserves; outcome which is justly deserved





commensurate

a. of the same size, extent, or duration as another





commiserate

v. feel or express pity or sympathy for





compact

a. closely and firmly united or packed together; briefly giving a gist of something





comparable

a. similar or equivalent; being of equal regard; worthy of being ranked with





compile

v. put together or compose from materials gathered from several sources





complacency

n. the feeling of contented self-satisfaction, especially when unaware of upcoming trouble





compliant

a. yielding to request or desire; ready to accommodate; disposed or willing to comply





composure

n. mental calmness; calm or tranquil state of mind





comprise

v. include; consist of; be composed of





compunction

n. the feeling of deep regret; strong uneasiness caused by a sense of guilt





concave

a. hollow; curved like the inner surface of a sphere





conceit

n. overly high self-esteem; feelings of excessive pride





concentric

a. having a common center, circles of different size, one within another





conciliatory

a. making or willing to yield, or to make concessions





concise

a. brief and compact; expressing much in few words





conflagration

a. large destructive fire; burning; the large-scale military conflict





confluence

n. act of two things flowing together; junction or meeting place where two things meet





consternation

n. intense state of fear or dismay; astonishment combined with terror





constituent

n. component or part; citizen, voter





constraint

n. something that restricts or confines within prescribed bounds





contemptuous

a. scornful; expressing contempt; showing a lack of respect





contiguous

a. sharing an edge or boundary; touching; neighboring





contrived

a. artificially formal; obviously planned or calculated; not natural





contusion

n. injury that doesn't break the skin





converge

v. approach; tend to meet; come together





conversant

a. familiar, as by study or experience; able to converse knowledgeably





convex

a. curving outward; having a surface that bulges outward, as the exterior of a sphere





conveyance

n. act of conveying; tools of conveying, especially vehicle for transportation





convivial

a. festive; occupied with or fond of the pleasures of good company





convoluted

a. coiled around; highly involved; intricate





copious

a. plentiful; containing plenty; affording ample supply





cordon

n. line around an area to enclose or guard it





cornucopia

n. goat's horn overflowing with fruit and grain; a symbol of abundance





corollary

n. natural consequence or effect; result





corporeal

a. bodily; of material nature; tangible





corpulent

a. very fat; large in the body; overweight





correlation

n. mutual relationship; interdependence or interconnection relationship





corrosive

a. eating away by chemicals or disease





countenance

v. give sanction or support to; tolerate or approve





cumulative

a. increasing by successive addition





cupidity

n. greed; excessive desire, especially for wealth





curmudgeon

n. an ill-tempered person full of stubborn ideas or opinions





cursive

a. flowing, as writing letters joined one to another without raising pen; running





cursory

a. casual; brief or broad; not cautious, nor detailed





dais

n. raised platform for guests of honor





dapper

a. neatly dressed; very stylish in dress; lively and alert





dauntless

a. bold; incapable of being discouraged; fearless





dawdle

v. proceed slowly; waste time





dearth

n. scarcity; shortage of food; famine from failure or loss of crops





debauch

v. corrupt; seduce from virtue





debonair

a. friendly; of good appearance and manners; graceful





decadence

n. process, condition, or period of deterioration or decline; falling off or away; decay





decapitate

v. behead; cut off the head of





decimate

v. destroy or kill a large part of; select by lot and kill one in every ten of





declivity

n. downward slope, as of a hill





decomposition

n. breakdown or decay of organic materials; act or result of decomposing





decrepit

a. weakened, worn out, or broken down by old age, illness, or hard use





deference

n. willingness to carry out the wishes of others; great respect





Chapter 6: Level 2 - 2





defile

v. pollute; make dirty or spotty





deform

v. change shape by stress; become misshapen; make formless





defray

v. pay costs of; undertake payment of; make compensation to or for





deft

a. quick and skillful; neat in action or performance





defunct

a. dead; no longer in use or existence





deign

v. condescend to give or grant; esteem worthy; consider worth notice





delirium

n. a mental disorder marked by confusion





delude

v. deceive mind or judgment of; lead from truth or into error; frustrate or disappoint





deluge

n. great flood; heavy downpour; any overflowing of water





delve

v. dig the ground, as with spade; search deeply and laboriously





demean

v. degrade; debase, as in dignity or social standing





demur

v. object because of doubts; hesitate





demure

a. modest and reserved in manner or behavior





denounce

v. condemn openly; criticize; make known in a formal manner





depict

v. represent in a picture or sculpture; portray in words; describe





deplete

v. decrease fullness of; use up or empty out





deplore

v. feel or express strong disapproval of; condemn; express sorrow or grief over; regret





depose

v. force to leave; remove from office





depravity

n. extreme corruption or degradation; wickedness





depreciation

n. devaluation; decrease in price or value





derelict

a. left and abandoned; negligent in performing a duty





derivative

a. unoriginal; derived from another source





descry

v. catch sight of; discover by careful observation or scrutiny





desecrate

v. violate with violence, especially to a sacred place





desolate

a. unpopulated; providing no shelter or sustenance; devoid of inhabitants





despondent

a. in low spirits from loss of hope or courage





destitute

a. extremely poor; utterly lacking; devoid





desultory

a. aimless; haphazard; at random; not connected with the subject





detrimental

a. causing damage or harm; injurious





deviate

v. turn away from a principle, norm; depart; diverge





devout

a. expressing devotion or piety; earnest in the religious field





dexterous

a. skillful in the use of the hands; having mental skill





diffuse

v. spread out widely; scatter freely; pour out and cause to spread freely





digress

v. turn aside, especially from the main subject in writing or speaking





dilapidated

a. in disrepair, run-down; of very poor quality or condition





discord

n. conflict; lack of agreement among persons, groups, or things





discordant

a. not harmonious; conflicting; disagreeable in sound; harsh or dissonant





discourse

n. a formal, lengthy discussion of a subject; verbal exchange; conversation





discrete

a. separate; consisting of unconnected distinct parts





discriminating

a. able to see differences; showing careful judgment or fine taste





disheveled

a. marked by disorder; untidy; having hair in loose disorder





disingenuous

a. giving a false appearance of frankness; not straightforward or candid; insincere or calculating





disinterested

a. not interested; indifferent; free of self-interest; impartial





disjointed

a. separated at joints; out of joint; lacking order or coherence





dislodge

v. remove or force out from a position of dwelling previously occupied





dismay

v. destroy courage or resolution by exciting dread; cause to lose enthusiasm





dismember

v. cut into small parts; withdraw or exclude from membership, as of a society or body





disparage

v. belittle; speak of in a slighting or disrespectful way; reduce in esteem or rank





disparity

n. difference; condition or fact of being unequal, as in age, rank, or degree





dispel

v. scatter; drive away; cause to vanish





disquiet

v. make uneasy or anxious; trouble





dissection

n. analysis; cutting apart in order to examine





dissemble

v. disguise or conceal behind a false appearance; make a false show of





dissent

v. differ in opinion or feeling; withhold assent or approval





dissident

a. disagreeing, especially with a majority; rebellious





dissipate

v. spend or expend wastefully; vanish by dispersion; drive away; disperse





dissolute

a. lacking moral restraint; indulging in sensual pleasures or vices





dissuade

v. persuade not to do; discourage





distort

v. twist out of proper or natural relation of parts; misshape; misrepresent





divergent

a. differing; tending to move apart in different directions





divest

v. free of; rid; remove all of one's clothing





docile

a. obedient; ready and willing to be taught; easily managed or handled





dogged

a. determined; stubbornly persevering; unyielding





dogmatic

a. stubbornly adhering to insufficiently proven beliefs; inflexible, rigid





domicile

n. place of residence of a person or a family





dote

v. be excessively fond of; show signs of mental decline





dour

a. stubbornly unyielding; marked by sternness or harshness





douse

v. plunge into water; wet thoroughly; extinguish





dowdy

a. lacking stylishness or neatness; shabby; old-fashioned





dregs

n. sediment settled at the bottom of a liquid; waste or worthless matter





drone

n. idle person; male bee; someone who takes more time than necessary





dross

n. waste or impure matter; worthless, commonplace, or trivial matter





drudgery

n. hard, monotonous routine work





dulcet

a. sweet sounding; pleasing to ear; melodious





dupe

n. easily deceived person; duplicate of a photographic image





duplicity

n. double-dealing; deliberate deceptiveness in behavior or speech; acting in bad faith.





dutiful

a. careful to fulfill obligations; expressing or filled with a sense of obligation





earthy

a. unrefined; crude or indecent; of this world; worldly





ebb

v. fall away or back; decline or recede; fall back from the flood stage





eclectic

a. composed of elements from a variety of sources





ecologist

n. a biologist who studies the relationship between organisms and their environment





edict

n. the decree, especially issued by a sovereign; official command





efface

v. rub or wipe out; make indistinct as if by rubbing





effigy

n. crude figure or dummy representing a hated person or group; likeness or image, especially of a person





effrontery

n. shameless or brazen boldness; insolent and shameless audacity





egress

n. act of coming or going out; emergence; right to leave; path or opening for going out





ejaculation

n. act of throwing or shooting out; darting or casting forth; uttering of exclamations, or of brief exclamatory phrases





elaboration

n. production by a gradual process; the act of working out with great care in detail





elated

a. overjoyed; extremely happy and excited





elicit

v. draw out; bring forth or to light; generate or provoke as response or answer





elixir

n. a substance believed to cure all ills





elliptical

a. rounded like an egg; in shape reminding of an ellipse; oval





eloquence

n. powerful and effective language; persuasive speech





elude

v. avoid cleverly; escape the perception of





emaciated

a. very thin especially from disease or hunger





embargo

n. ban on commerce or other activity





embed

v. enclose; place in something; fix firmly in surrounding mass





embroiled

a. throw into confusion; deeply involved, especially in something complicated





embryonic

a. in the early stage of development; of an organism before birth; related to embryo





eminent

a. standing out above other things; high in rank, office, or worth





empirical

a. derived from experiment and observation rather than theory





emulate

v. be a match or counterpart for; eager to equal or excel





enamored

a. totally in love; marked by a foolish or unreasoning fondness





encroachment

n. gradual intrusion; entry into a place that was previously uncommon; advance beyond former borders





endearment

n. tender affection; love; act of showing affection





enmity

n. ill will; hatred; quality or state of being hostile





ennui

n. the feeling of being bored by something tedious





enormity

n. hugeness in a bad sense; the act of extreme evil or wickedness





entail

v. imply or require; cause to ensue or accrue; cut or carve in an ornamental way





enterprising

a. full of initiative; marked by aggressive ambition and energy and initiative





entomology

n. study of insects; branch of zoology which treats of insects





entreat

v. plead; make the earnest request of; ask for earnestly





enumerate

v. list each one; mention one by one





eon

n. indefinitely long period of time; age





ephemeral

a. short-lived; enduring a very short time





epitaph

n. inscription on a tombstone in memory





epithet

n. word or phrase characteristically used to describe a person or thing





epitome

n. representative or perfect example of a class or type; brief summary, as of a book or article





epoch

n. a particular period of history, especially one considered remarkable





equanimity

n. calmness of temperament; steadiness of mind under stress.





equestrian

n. one who rides a horse or performs on horseback





equinox

n. period of equal days and nights; the beginning of Spring and Autumn





equitable

a. marked by or having equity; just and impartial





equivocal

a. open to two or more interpretations and often intended to mislead





erode

v. eat away; wear away by abrasion; become worn





erroneous

a. containing or derived from error; mistaken





escapade

n. wild and exciting undertaking; adventurous or unconventional act





esoteric

a. hard to understand; known only in a particular group





espouse

v. take in marriage; marry; give one's loyalty or support to; adopt





ethereal

a. light as air; heavenly; unusually refined





etymology

n. study of the historical development of languages, particularly as manifested in individual words





euphoria

n. the feeling of great happiness and well-being, sometimes exaggerated





euthanasia

n. the practice of ending the life of hopelessly ill individuals; assisted suicide





evince

v. show or demonstrate clearly; overcome; conquer





evocative

a. tending to call up emotions, memories





ewe

n. female sheep, especially when full grown





exacerbate

v. increase severity, violence, or bitterness of; aggravate





exalt

v. raise in rank or dignity; praise





excise

v. cut away; cut out; remove by or as if by cutting





exclaim

v. cry out suddenly, as from surprise or emotion





exemplify

v. serve as an example of; embody





exertion

n. effort; expenditure of much physical work





exhaustive

a. treating all parts or aspects without omission; comprehensive





exhort

v. urge on or encourage, especially by shouts; make an urgent appeal





exhume

v. dig out of ground; remove from grave





exodus

n. departure of a large number of people





exorbitant

a. greatly exceeding bounds of reason or moderation; exceeding proper limits





exorcise

v. drive out evil spirits by or as if by incantation, command, or prayer





expansive

a. outgoing and sociable; broad and extensive; able to increase in size





expedient

a. suitable; appropriate to a purpose; serving to promote your interest





expenditure

n. payment or expense; output





expiate

v. make amends or pay the penalty for; relieve or cleanse of guilt





expletive

n. interjection; word or phrase having no independent meaning; expression usually of surprise or anger





explicit

a. precisely and clearly expressed; definite; outspoken





exploit

n. deed or action, particularly a brave deed





exponent

n. one that expounds or interprets; one that speaks for represents, or advocates





expound

v. explain or describe in detail





extant

a. still in existence; not destroyed, lost, or extinct





extraneous

a. not essential; coming from outside





extricate

v. free, as from difficulties or perplexities; cause to be emitted or evolved





fabricate

v. build; put together out of components or parts





facet

n. small, smooth, flat surface, as on a bone or tooth; side; a smooth surface





facetious

a. joking ,often inappropriately; humorous





facile

a. done or achieved with little effort or difficulty; ready or fluent





facsimile

n. exact copy or reproduction, as of a document; fax





fallacious

a. false; tending to mislead; deceptive





fallible

a. likely to fail or be inaccurate





fallow

a. plowed but left unseeded during a growing season; uncultivated





falter

v. be unsteady in purpose or action, as from loss of courage or confidence





fanaticism

n. excessive zeal; extreme devotion to a belief or cause





fanfare

n. a loud flourish of brass instruments, especially trumpets; spectacular public display





fastidious

a. difficult to please; having complicated requirements; excessively particular demanding about details





fauna

n. animals of a period or region





fawning

a. attempting to win favor by flattering; flattering





faze

v. disturb composure of; dismay; ruffle





feckless

a. without skill, ineffective; worthless; lacking purpose





feign

v. make the false appearance of; disguise; conceal; invent or imagine





feint

n. trick; any distracting or deceptive maneuver





felicitous

a. apt; suitably expressed; well chosen





ferment

n. agitation; chemical phenomenon in which an organic molecule splits into simpler substances





fervent

a. extremely hot; sincerely or intensely felt





fetid

a. unpleasant-smelling; having offensive smell; stinking





fetter

v. restrain with U-shaped bar for ankles or feet; impede; hamper





fictitious

a. existing only in imagination; feigned; not true or real





figurative

a. not literal, but metaphorical; not with their basic meaning but with a more imaginative meaning





filament

n. fine thread or fiber; thin wire; threadlike structure within the light bulb





filibuster

v. block legislation by making long speeches





fissure

n. a long narrow opening; long narrow depression in a surface





flagrant

a. obvious and offensive, blatant, scandalous; flaming into notice





flamboyant

a. elaborately or excessively ornamented





fledgling

a. young and inexperienced; having just acquired its flight feathers





fleece

v. rob; a strip of money or other property unjustly, especially by trickery or fraud; ask an unreasonable price





flippant

a. lacking proper seriousness; speaking freely; talkative; communicative





floe

n. mass of floating ice; ice formed by freezing of surface-water of polar oceans





florid

a. reddish; elaborately or excessively ornamented





flux

n. flowing; series of changes; state of being liquid through heat





fodder

n. coarse food for cattle or horses





foliage

n. masses of leaves; a cluster of leaves, flowers, and branches





foolhardy

a. rash; marked by unthinking boldness





fop

n. vain man; one who wants to get admiration by dress; man excessively concerned with his clothes and appearance





forbearance

n. patience; restraint of passions; the act of forbearing or waiting





forebear

n. a person from whom you are descended





foreboding

n. the expectation of misfortune; feeling of evil to come; unfavorable omen





forego

v. precede; go ahead of; go forward; go on





foresight

n. ability to foresee future happenings





forestall

v. prevent by taking action in advance





forgo

v. give up; do without; go or pass by without claiming





forlorn

a. sad and lonely; wretched; abandoned or left behind





forsake

v. leave someone who needs or counts on you





fortitude

n. bravery; force; power to attack or to resist attack





fortuitous

a. accidental; by chance; coming or occurring without any cause





fraudulent

a. cheating; deceitful; planning or using fraud; given to the practice of fraud





fraught

a. furnished or equipped; sufficient to satisfy





fray

n. battle, assault, or quarrel with violence; wear away by rubbing





fresco

n. cool, refreshing state of the air; the art of painting on freshly spread plaster before it dries





fruition

n. bearing of fruit; fulfillment; realization





frustrate

v. make null; bring to nothing; prevent from taking effect or attaining fulfillment





fulcrum

n. support on which a lever rests; prop or support





furlough

n. leave of absence; vacation granted a soldier or civil servant





furtive

a. marked by quiet and caution and secrecy





gaffe

n. socially awkward or tactless act; foolish error, especially one made in public





gainsay

v. speak against; contradict; oppose in words; deny or declare not to be true





gall

v. make sore by abrasion; damage surface friction; annoy





gambit

n. chess move in which the player sacrifices minor pieces to obtain an advantageous position





gamut

n. entire range; all notes in musical scale





gape

v. open the mouth wide; yawn from sleepiness, weariness, or dullness





garbled

a. mixed up; difficult to understand because it has been distorted





gargantuan

a. huge; of a tremendous size, volume, degree





garish

a. over-bright in color; tastelessly showy





garnish

v. decorate with ornamental appendages





garrulous

a. talking much and repetition of unimportant or trivial details





gaudy

a. very showy or ornament, especially when excessive or in a tasteless or vulgar manner





gaunt

a. very thin, especially from disease or hunger or cold; barren





gawk

v. stare foolishly; look in open-mouthed awe





genealogy

n. account or history of the descent of person or family from an ancestor; lineage





generality

n. quality of being general; an idea having general application





genteel

a. well-bred; marked by refinement in taste and manners





germane

a. related to the topic being discussed or considered; appropriate or fitting; relevant





girth

n. distance around something; circumference; size; bulk





glossy

a. smooth and shining; reflecting luster from a smooth or polished surface; plausible





gnarled

a. twisted; knotty; made rough by age or hard work





grandiose

a. impressive from inherent grandeur; large and impressive, in size, scope, or extent





gratis

a. free, without charge; costing nothing





grievance

n. cause of grief or distress; discomfort or pain





grimace

n. facial distortion to show feeling such as pain, disgust





grouse

v. complain or grumble; seek or shoot grouse





grudging

a. unwilling or with reluctance; stingy





gruel

n. liquid food made by boiling oatmeal





gruff

a. having rough, surly, or harsh nature





hackneyed

a. repeated too often; overfamiliar through overuse





haphazard

a. not thorough, constant, or consistent; by chance





harangue

n. noisy speech; speech or piece of writing with strong feeling or expression





harrowing

a. agonizing; distressing extremely painful





headlong

a. uncontrollably forceful or fast; done with head leading; headfirst





heedless

a. unaware, without noticing; unmindful or thoughtless





heresy

n. opinion contrary to popular belief; opinion contrary to accepted religion





heretical

a. departing from accepted beliefs or standards; oppositional





hermitage

n. a place where one can live in seclusion; home of one isolated from society for religious reasons





heterogeneous

a. consisting of dissimilar elements or parts; completely different





heyday

n. period of greatest popularity, success, or power; the golden age





hierarchy

n. arrangement by rank or standing; series in which each element is graded or ranked





hilarity

n. great enjoyable or amusing activity





hindrance

n. something that holds back or causes problems with something else; obstacle





hoard

v. stockpile; accumulate for future use





hoary

a. gray or white with or as if with age; covered with grayish hair





homogeneous

a. of the same or similar nature or kind





horde

n. a large group or crowd; wandering troop or gang; a moving crowd





hovel

n. shack; small, wretched house





hubris

n. excessive pride or self-confidence





hulking

a. massive; bulky; great in size





humdrum

a. lacking variety or excitement; monotonous





humid

a. containing a high amount of water or water vapor





hyperbole

n. the figure of speech in which exaggeration is used for emphasis; overstatement





hypercritical

a. excessively exacting; inclined to judge too severely





hypochondriac

n. patient with imaginary symptoms and ailments; one who is morbidly anxious about his health and generally depressed





ideology

n. study of origin and nature of ideas





idiom

n. an expression whose meaning differs from meanings of its individual words; distinctive style





ignite

v. kindle; cause to start burning; set fire to





ignoble

a. of lowly origin; not noble in quality, character, or purpose; unworthy





ignominy

n. deep disgrace; shame or dishonor





immutable

a. unable to be changed without exception; not mutable





impair

v. injure or hurt; become worse; affect negatively





impale

v. pierce; kill by piercing with a spear or sharp





impassable

a. not able to be traveled or crossed





impassive

a. without feeling; revealing little emotion or sensibility; not easily aroused or excited





impeach

v. accuse; challenge or discredit the credibility of





impede

v. hinder; charge with improper conduct; challenge the validity of; try to discredit





impel

v. drive or force onward; drive forward; urge to action through moral pressure





imperceptible

a. impossible or difficult to perceive by the mind or senses





imperious

a. urgent or pressing; able to deal authoritatively; dictatorial





impertinent

a. improperly forward or bold; rude





imperturbable

a. unshakably calm; placid; incapable of being disturbed or disconcerted





impervious

a. impenetrable; incapable of being damaged or distressed





impetuous

a. marked by sudden and violent force; hasty; impulsive and passionate





impetus

n. incentive; stimulus; force or energy associated with a moving body





implacable

a. incapable of being pacified; not to be relieved;





implausible

a. unlikely; difficult to believe; dubious





impregnable

a. invulnerable; able to withstand attack





impropriety

n. improper act; improper or unacceptable usage in speech or writing





imprudent

a. lacking caution; injudicious; not attentive to consequence





Chapter 7: Level 2 - 3





impudence

n. offensively bold behavior; the trait of being rude





impunity

n. freedom from punishment or harm; exemption from injury, suffering, or discomfort





impute

v. lay responsibility or blame for, often unjustly





inalienable

a. not to be taken away; nontransferable





inarticulate

a. speechless; without or deprived of the use of speech or words





incapacitate

v. disable or disqualify; deprive of capacity or natural power





incarcerate

v. imprison; put into jail; shut up or enclose





incarnation

n. person or thing regarded as embodying or exhibiting some quality, idea





incendiary

n. arsonist; bomb that is designed to start fires





inception

n. beginning of something; taking in, as by swallowing; the process of receiving within





incidence

n. rate of occurrence; particular occurrence





incidental

a. happening, as an occasional event, without regularity; coming without design





incipient

a. beginning to exist or appear; in an early stage





incite

v. arouse to action; motivate; induce to exist





inclement

a. stormy; showing no mercy; physically severe





incline

n. cause to lean, slant, or slope; deviate from the horizontal or vertical





inclusive

a. tending to include all; taking a great deal or everything within its scope





incoherent

a. lacking cohesion, connection, or harmony; unable to think in a clear manner





incompatible

a. inharmonious; impossible to coexist; not easy to combine harmoniously





incongruous

a. not fitting; lacking in harmony or compatibility





inconsequential

a. insignificant; lacking importance; not following from premises or evidence; illogical





incontrovertible

a. indisputable; not open to question





inculcate

v. teach and impress by frequent repetitions





incursion

n. aggressive entrance into foreign territory; raid or invasion





indefatigable

a. tireless; showing sustained enthusiastic action





indelible

a. impossible to remove, erase, or wash away; permanent





indentation

n. concave cut into a surface or edge; small hollow or depression





indeterminate

a. uncertain; not clearly fixed; indefinite





index

n. anything which shows, indicates, manifests, or discloses; prologue indicating what follows; the second digit





indict

v. charge; accuse formally of a crime





indignity

n. offensive or insulting treatment





indisputable

a. not open to question; obviously true; beyond dispute or doubt





indolent

a. lazy; slow to heal, grow, or develop; inactive





indomitable

a. unconquerable; incapable of being overcome





inebriated

a. under the influence of alcohol; intoxicated; drunk





inert

a. inactive; lacking the power to move; unable to move or act





infinitesimal

a. very small; immeasurably or incalculably minute





influx

n. flowing into; mass arrival or incoming





infraction

n. violation of rule or regulation; breach; minor offense or petty crime





infuriate

v. enrage; make furious or mad with anger





infusion

n. act or process of infusing; a solution into a person through the vein for therapeutic purposes





ingenue

n. innocent girl or young woman; actress who plays such parts





injurious

a. harmful; tending to injure or impair; abusive; insulting





innocuous

a. having no adverse effect; harmless





innovative

a. marked by or given to innovations; introducing a change





inopportune

a. untimely; poorly chosen; inconvenient; unseasonable; unsuitable





inordinate

a. exceeding reasonable limits; excessive; not regulated; disorderly





inquest

n. formal investigation, often held before a jury; judicial inquiry





inquisitor

n. questioner, especially who is excessively rigorous or harsh; investigator





inscrutable

a. impenetrable; not readily understood; mysterious





insipid

a. lacking flavor or zest; not tasty; dull





insolence

n. scornful treatment; insulting speech or conduct





instigate

v. goad or urge forward; provoke; incite





insular

a. of isolated people, especially having a narrow viewpoint





insulated

a. set apart; isolated in a restricted sense, so remote from other bodies





insurgent

a. rising in revolt against established authority; rebelling against the leadership of a political party





insurmountable

a. overwhelming; incapable of being passed over or overcome





intangible

a. not able to be perceived by senses, as touch; vague





integrate

v. make whole; combine; make into one unit





interloper

n. intruder; one that interferes with affairs of others, often for selfish reasons





interminable

a. being or seeming to be without an end; endless; tedious; continual





intermittent

a. periodic; on and off; stopping and starting at intervals





intrepid

a. fearless; indicating or springing from courage





intrinsic

a. relating to essential nature of a thing; inherent; built-in





introspective

a. looking within oneself; thoughtful about oneself; studying or exhibiting one's own internal state





invalidate

v. make invalid; nullify; destroy





invert

v. turn upside down or inside out; reverse the position, order, or condition of





inveterate

a. deep-rooted; firmly and long-established; habitual





invocation

n. prayer for help; calling upon as reference or support





irksome

a. causing annoyance, weariness, or vexation; tedious





irreconcilable

a. incompatible; not able to be resolved





irrefutable

a. unable to be disproved; incontrovertible; undeniable





irrepressible

a. unable to be restrained; difficult or impossible to control or restrain





irrevocable

a. unalterable; irreversible; impossible to retract or revoke





itinerant

a. wandering; traveling place to place, especially to perform work or duty





jabber

v. talk rapidly, unintelligibly, or idly





jargon

n. the language used by a special group; technical terminology; nonsensical or meaningless talk





jaunt

n. short trip or excursion, usually for pleasure; short journey





jaunty

a. gay in manner, appearance, or action; easy and carefree





jettison

v. throw overboard; eject from boat, submarine, aircraft, or spaceship





jovial

a. good-natured; marked by good cheer; cheerful and good-humored





judicious

a. exhibiting good judgment or sound thinking; prudent





kaleidoscope

n. tube in which patterns made by reflection in mirrors of colored pieces of glass; produce interesting symmetrical effects





kernel

n. central or vital part; most material and central part; grain or seed as of corn





killjoy

n. one who spoils pleasure or fun of others; spoilsport





kinetic

a. relating to, or produced by motion; dynamic





knoll

n. small rounded hill or mound; top or crown of a hill





laborious

a. demanding much work or care; tedious





lachrymose

a. weeping or inclined to weep; tearful; showing sorrow





lackluster

a. dull; lacking luster or shine





laconic

a. brief; effectively cut short; marked by the use of few words





lament

v. grieve; express sorrow; regret deeply





languid

a. lacking energy or vitality; weak; sluggish; lacking spirit or liveliness





languish

v. lose animation; be or become weak or feeble; lose strength or vigor





languor

n. the feeling of lack of interest or energy; depression





laudable

a. deserving of praise; worthy of high praise





levity

n. lack of seriousness; the lightness of manner or speech, especially when inappropriate





limber

a. capable of moving, bending, or contorting easily





limerick

n. humorous short verse; nonsense song or verse





limpid

a. clear, transparent or bright; calm, untroubled, and without worry





liquidate

v. settle accounts to pay them off; clear up





listless

a. lacking in spirit or energy to exert effort





litany

n. repetitive or incantatory recital; long and tedious address





lithe

a. flexible; moving and bending with ease





loath

a. unwilling or reluctant; filled with disgust or aversion; dislike





lofty

a. high, tall, having great height; idealistic, implying over-optimism





loiter

v. stand idly about; linger aimlessly; proceed slowly or with many stops





longevity

n. long life; great duration of life; long duration or continuance, as in an occupation





loom

v. appear or take shape, usually in an enlarged or distorted form





loquacious

a. talkative; given to continual talking; chattering





lout

n. an awkward and stupid person; troublemaker, often violent





lull

n. moment of calm; a period of calm weather; temporary quiet and rest





luminous

a. shining; emitting light, especially emitting self-generated light





lunge

v. quick forward dive or reach; thrust





lurk

v. stealthily lie in waiting; exist unperceived





luster

n. shine, polish, or sparkle; soft reflected light





lustrous

a. giving out or shedding light, as sun or fire; reflecting light; having a brilliant surface





luxuriant

a. abundant; rich and splendid; fertile





machination

n. clever scheme or artful plot, usually crafted for evil purposes





madrigal

n. song for two or three unaccompanied voices; short poem, often about love, suitable for being set to music





maelstrom

n. whirlpool; powerful circular current of water





maim

v. wound seriously; cause permanent loss of function of limb or part of the body





malaise

n. general sense of depression or unease; vague feeling of bodily discomfort, as at the beginning of an illness





malcontent

n. a person dissatisfied with current conditions; a discontented person





malevolent

a. having or exhibiting ill will; wishing harm to others; malicious





malfeasance

n. misconduct or wrongdoing, especially by a public official





malign

v. speak evil of; bad-mouth; defame





mammoth

a. gigantic; of great comparative size





maniacal

a. wildly disordered; excessive enthusiasm or excitement; insane





materialism

n. the philosophical theory that matter is the only reality





matriarch

n. a woman who rules a family, clan, or tribe; highly respected woman who is a mother





maul

v. roughly handle someone or something; cause serious physical wounds





meddlesome

a. inclined to interfere in other people's business; intrusive with the offensive manner





mediate

v. resolve or settle differences by working with all conflicting parties





menagerie

n. collection of live wild animals on exhibition; enclosure in which wild animals are kept





metropolis

n. a major city, especially the chief city of country or region





mettle

n. quality of endurance and courage; good temperament and character





minuscule

a. very small; tiny; lowercase letter





mire

v. cause to sink or become stuck in; hinder, entrap, or entangle





mirth

n. gladness and gaiety, especially when expressed by laughter





mischance

n. unfortunate occurrence; mishap; bad luck





misconception

n. mistaken thought, idea, or notion; erroneous conception; false opinion





misgiving

n. feeling of doubt, distrust, or apprehension





misnomer

n. error in naming person or place; name wrongly or unsuitably applied to a person or an object





mitigate

v. make less severe or harsh; moderate





modicum

n. limited quantity; small or moderate amount; any small thing





molten

a. made liquid by heat; glowing red-hot; being in a state of fusion





monotony

n. uniformity or lack of variation; continual increase, or continual decrease; tedium as a result of repetition





montage

n. photographic composition combining elements from different sources





mores

n. conventions; moral standards; accepted traditional customs





mosaic

n. picture design made by setting small colored pieces, as of stone or tile, into the surface





mote

n. a tiny piece of anything; very small particle





motif

n. dominant theme or central idea; repeated figure or design in architecture or decoration





muddle

v. make muddy; mix confusedly; think, act, or proceed in a confused or aimless manner





muggy

a. warm and extremely humid; moist; damp; moldy





multilingual

a. using or having ability to use several languages





munificent

a. very liberal in giving; showing great generosity





murky

a. dark and gloomy; thick with fog; vague





muted

a. silent; muffled; toned down; indistinct





naivete

n. lack of sophistication, experience, judgment or worldliness; simplicity; artlessness; gullibility





navigable

a. wide and deep enough to allow ships to pass through; able to be steered





negate

v. cancel out; make ineffective or invalid; deny





negligible

a. so small, trifling, or unimportant that it may be easily disregarded





nepotism

n. favoring of relatives or friends because of their relationship rather than their abilities





nihilist

n. one who believes traditional beliefs to be groundless and existence meaningless; absolute skeptic





nomadic

a. leading a wandering life with no fixed abode; changeable; unsettled





nominal

a. in name only; insignificantly small





noncommittal

a. very reluctant to give out information





notoriety

n. known for some unfavorable act or quality; bad or ill fame





noxious

a. harmful to living things; injurious to health





nuptial

a. relating to marriage or wedding ceremony





oaf

n. person regarded as stupid or awkward





obdurate

a. hardened in wrongdoing or wickedness; not giving in to a persuasion





obese

a. extremely fat; grossly overweight





obligatory

a. morally or legally constraining; required; binding





oblique

a. having slanting or sloping direction, course, or position; inclined





obliterate

v. destroy completely; do away with completely so as to leave no trace





obsequious

a. slavishly attentive; attempting to win favor from influential people by flattery





obstetrician

n. physician specializing in delivery of babies





obstinate

a. stubbornly adhering to an attitude or opinion; hard to control or treat





obtuse

a. lacking in insight or discernment; stupid





odious

a. hateful; arousing strong dislike, aversion, or intense displeasure





officious

a. marked by excessive eagerness in offering unwanted services or advice to others





ogle

v. look at amorously; cast glances as in fondness or to attract notice





olfactory

a. relating to, or contributing to a sense of smell





omnipotent

a. all-powerful; having unlimited or universal power, authority, or force





opaque

a. impenetrable by light; not transparent; not reflecting light; having no luster





opportune

a. timely; just in time; suited or right for a particular purpose





optician

n. maker and seller of eyeglasses





opulence

n. extreme wealth; luxuriousness; abundance





opus

n. creative work, as literary or musical composition





orator

n. skilled public speaker; a person who pronounces discourse publicly on some special occasion, as pleader or lawyer





ordain

v. decree or command; grant holy orders; predestine





ornate

a. excessively or elaborately decorated; flashy, showy, or florid in style or manner





ornery

a. disagreeable and contrary in disposition; mean or coarse





ostensible

a. put forth or held out as real, actual, or intended; proper or intended to be shown





ostentatious

a. showy; pretentious; trying to attract attention





oust

v. expel; eject from a position or place; force out





outlandish

a. unconventional; strikingly unfamiliar; located far from civilized areas





outskirt

n. part or region remote from a central district, as of a city or town; fringe; outer border





outspoken

a. given to expressing yourself freely or insistently





outwit

v. outsmart; trick; beat through cleverness and wit





ovation

n. enthusiastic, prolonged applause; show of public homage or welcome





overt

a. open to view; not secret or hidden





overwrought

a. extremely disturbed from emotion





pachyderm

n. any of various large, thick-skinned, hoofed mammals, as elephant





pacifist

n. one opposed to force; antimilitarist





pacify

v. ease the anger or agitation of; make calm or quiet; end war or violence





painstaking

a. extremely careful and diligent work or effort; taking of pains





palatable

a. acceptable; sufficiently agreeable in flavor to be eaten





palette

n. board on which the painter mixes pigments





pallid

a. abnormally pale; lacking intensity of color or luminousness





palpable

a. tangible; easily perceptible; unmistakable





paltry

a. insignificant; lacking in importance or worth; worthless





panache

n. distinctive and stylish elegance; a bunch of feathers or plume, especially on a helmet





pandemic

a. widespread; affecting majority of people





pandemonium

n. state of extreme confusion and disorder; very noisy place





pander

v. offer illicit sex with the third party; tempt with or appeal to improper motivations





panoramic

a. related to unobstructed and comprehensive view; with a wide view





parable

n. a short, simple story teaching moral or religious lesson





paradigm

n. a model of something, or a very clear and typical example of something





paraphernalia

n. personal ornaments or accessories, as of attire; articles used in a particular activity





paraphrase

v. restate text in one's own words, especially to clarify the thought of others





pare

v. remove outer covering or skin with a knife or similar instrument





parity

n. equality in status or amount; similarity or close





parochial

a. narrow in outlook; related to a local church community





parody

n. work or performance that imitates another work or performance with ridicule or irony; make fun of





paroxysm

n. a sudden outburst of emotion or action; sudden attack, recurrence, or intensification of a disease





parry

v. avoid or try to avoid fulfilling, answering, or performing





parsimony

n. extreme care in spending money; reluctance to spend money unnecessarily





partisan

a. one-sided; prejudiced; committed to a party





partition

v. divide into parts, pieces, or sections





pathos

n. tender sorrow; pity; quality in art or literature that produces these feelings





patriarch

n. father and ruler of family or tribe





pauper

n. very poor person; one living on or eligible for public charity





pensive

a. deeply, often dreamily thoughtful; engaged in serious thought or reflection; contemplative





penury

n. extreme poverty; lack of something; barrenness; insufficiency





perennial

n. lasting indefinitely long time; suggesting self-renewal; remaining active throughout all the time





perfunctory

a. done routinely and with little interest or care; acting with indifference; showing little interest or care





peripheral

a. located in outer boundary; unimportant; auxiliary





periphery

n. edge, especially of a round surface; the surface of a solid; circumference





pernicious

a. very destructive; tending to cause death or serious injury; deadly





perpetrate

v. be responsible for; commit; do execute or perform, generally in a bad sense





perpetuate

v. make something last; preserve from extinction





peruse

v. read or examine, typically with great care





phenomena

n. observable facts; subjects of scientific investigation





philanderer

n. faithless lover; fickle lover; flirt, usually applies only to men





philanthropist

n. a person who loves humankind in general; a very generous person or institution





philistine

n. a person who refuses to see the beauty or the value of art or culture.





phlegmatic

a. calm; not easily disturbed; not easily excited to action or passion





physiological

a. pertaining to the science of the function of living organisms





piecemeal

ad. by a small amount at a time; in stages; gradually





pied

a. having sections or patches colored differently and usually brightly; multicolored





piety

n. religious devotion and reverence to God; devout act, thought, or statement; godliness





pigment

n. a substance used as coloring; dry coloring matter





pillage

v. rob of goods by force, especially in time of war; plunder; take as spoils





pinnacle

n. peak; tall pointed formation, such as mountain peak





pious

a. devout; religious; exhibiting a strict, traditional sense of virtue and morality





pitfall

n. hidden danger; concealed trap; hidden hazard





pithy

a. precisely meaningful; forceful and brief





pittance

n. a very small portion or allowance assigned, whether of food or money





placate

v. appease or pacify; bring peace to





placebo

n. harmless substance prescribed as a dummy pill





placid

a. peaceful; tranquil; calm or quiet





plaintive

a. expressing sorrow, mournful or melancholy; sad





platitude

n. dullness; insipidity of thought; commonplace statement; lack of originality





plebeian

a. crude or coarse; unrefined or coarse in nature or manner; common or vulgar





plethora

n. excess; over-fullness in any respect; superabundance





plucky

a. having or showing courage and spirit in trying circumstances





plummet

v. fall straight down; plunge; decline suddenly and steeply





podiatrist

n. doctor who specializes in diagnosis and treatment of foot ailments





politic

a. expedient; artful, crafty or cunning; using, displaying, or proceeding from policy





ponderous

a. slow and laborious because of weight; labored and dull





porous

a. full of pores; able to absorb fluids; full of tiny pores that allow fluids or gasses to pass through





portent

n. omen; forewarning; something that portends an event about to occur, especially unfortunate or evil event





poseur

n. a person who pretends to be sophisticated, elegant to impress others





practicable

a. feasible; capable of being affected, done, or put into practice





pragmatist

n. who acts in response to particular situations; one who acts in a practical or straightforward manner





prattle

v. speak about unimportant matters rapidly and incessantly; talk artlessly and childishly





preamble

n. introductory statement; introductory paragraph or division of discourse or writing





precept

n. rule or principle prescribing particular action or conduct; authorized direction or order





precipice

n. cliff; an overhanging or extremely steep mass of rock; dangerous position





precipitate

a. rash; moving rapidly and heedlessly; speeding headlong; occurring suddenly





precipitous

a. extremely steep; descending rapidly, or rushing onward





preclude

v. make impossible, as by action taken in advance; prevent; eliminate





precocious

a. advanced in development; appearing or developing early





predecessor

n. the former occupant of a post; ancestor or forefather





predilection

n. condition of favoring or liking; tendency towards; preference





preempt

v. appropriate, seize, or take for oneself before others; gain possession of by prior right or opportunity





prelude

n. introduction; forerunner; preliminary or preface





presage

v. foretell or predict; indicate or warn of in advance





pretext

n. excuse; something serving to conceal plans; the fictitious reason





prevalent

a. widespread; widely or commonly occurring, existing, accepted





prim

a. very precise and formal; exceedingly proper





proclivity

n. inclination; natural tendency; readiness; facility of learning





procrastinate

v. postpone or delay needlessly; put off doing something, especially out of habitual carelessness or laziness





prodigious

a. impressively great in size, force, or extent; enormous





profane

v. violate; put to improper, unworthy, or degrading use; abuse





progenitor

n. direct ancestor; originator of a line of descent; originator or founder





progeny

n. one derived from another; offspring or descendant; the result of creative effort, as product





Chapter 8: Level 2 - 4





projectile

n. a weapon that is thrown or projected; self-propelled missile, such as rocket; a fired or thrown object





proliferation

n. rapid growth; spread; increase in size by reproduction





prolific

a. producing offspring or fruit in great abundance; fertile





prologue

n. introduction, usually to a poem or play





promiscuous

a. having casual sexual relations frequently with different partners; casual and unrestrained in sexual behavior





propagate

v. cause something to multiply or breed; cause to extend to a broader area or larger number





propensity

n. natural inclination; tendency or preference; predilection





propriety

n. fitness; correct conduct; quality of being proper; appropriateness





prosaic

a. dull and unimaginative; matter-of-fact; factual





protege

n. a person guided and protected by a more prominent person





provisional

a. temporary; provided for present need only





pseudonym

n. pen name; fictitious name used when someone performs a particular social role





pterodactyl

n. extinct flying reptiles that existed during the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods





pummel

v. beat or pound with fists; hit or strike heavily and repeatedly





pungent

a. stinging; sharp in taste or smell; caustic





putrid

a. decomposed and foul-smelling; rotten; decayed





pyromania

n. person with insane desire to set things on fire





quagmire

n. soft wet boggy land; complex or dangerous situation from which it isn't easy to free oneself





qualm

n. a sudden feeling of sickness or faintness; sudden attack of illness





quell

v. extinguish; put down forcibly; suppress; pacify or quiet





quench

v. put out a fire; extinguish; put an end to; destroy





querulous

a. habitually complaining; expressing complaint or grievance





query

n. inquiry; doubt in mind; mental reservation





quirk

n. sudden sharp turn or twist; strange attitude or habit; the peculiarity of behavior





quiver

v. shake with a slight, rapid, tremulous movement





quizzical

a. suggesting puzzlement; mocking; curious





quorum

n. number of members necessary to conduct a meeting; a select group





rancid

a. having disagreeable odor or taste of decomposing oils or fats





rapacious

a. excessively greedy; predatory; taking by force; plundering





ratify

v. approve formally; confirm; verify





reactionary

a. opposition to progress or liberalism; extremely conservative





rebuff

v. offer sudden or harsh resistance; turn down or shut out; repel or drive back





rebuke

v. scold harshly; criticize severely





recession

n. withdrawal; retreat; time of low economic activity





reciprocal

a. concerning each of two or more persons or things; exchangeable; interacting





recrimination

n. countercharge; counter or mutual accusation; accusation brought by the accused against the accuser





redress

n. remedy; compensation; an act of correcting error or fault





refute

v. disprove; prove to be false or incorrect





rehabilitate

v. restore to proper condition; help to re-adapt, as to the former state of health or good repute





reiterate

v. say, state, or perform again or repeatedly





rejuvenate

v. make young again; restore to youthful vigor or appearance





relic

n. surviving remnant; something left after loss or decay; object kept for its association with the past





remnant

n. remainder; small part or portion that remains after the central part no longer exists





renegade

n. disloyal person; traitor or rebel





renege

v. deny; go back on; fail to fulfill promise or obligation





renovate

v. restore to good condition; renew





renown

n. fame; quality of being widely honored and acclaimed





repeal

v. revoke or annul, especially by an official or formal act





replenish

v. fill or make complete again; add a new stock or supply to





replicate

v. duplicate, copy, reproduce, or repeat; fold over or bend back





repose

n. relaxation; leisure; freedom from worry; peace of mind





repository

n. a place where things may be put for safekeeping, as storehouse, warehouse, museum, or tomb





repress

v. put down by force or intimidation; restrain; crush; oppress; conceal or hide





reprimand

v. reprove severely, especially in a formal or official way; rebuke formally; censure severely or angrily





reprisal

n. action taken in return for injury or offense





reprobate

n. person hardened in sin; a person without moral scruples





reprove

v. voice or convey disapproval of; rebuke; find fault with





repudiate

v. disown; refuse to acknowledge; reject validity or authority of





repugnant

a. arousing disgust or aversion; offensive or repulsive; hateful





reputed

a. state of being held in high esteem and honor





requiem

n. mass for dead; song or hymn of mourning composed or performed as memorial





requisite

n. necessary requirement; indispensable item





resolute

a. firm, unyielding, or determined; having decided purpose





resolve

n. determination; formal expression by a meeting; agreed to by a vote





resonant

a. echoing; strong and deep in tone; resounding; having lasting presence or effect





respite

n. usually a short interval of rest or relief; delay in punishment





restitution

n. reparation; getting something back again; restoring something to its original state





retentive

a. holding; having quality, power, or capacity of retaining, as to retain knowledge with ease





reticence

n. reserve; state or quality of being reluctant; unwillingness





retort

n. reply, especially to answer in a quick, caustic, or witty manner





retroactive

a. extending in scope or effect to a prior time or prior conditions





retrograde

v. go backwards; decline to inferior state; degenerate





retrospective

a. looking back on, or directed to the past; applying to or influencing the past





revulsion

n. sudden strong change or reaction in feeling, especially a feeling of violent disgust





rife

a. excessively abundant or numerous; in widespread existence, practice, or use





rigor

n. strictness or severity, as in temperament, action, or judgment; something hard to endure





rigorous

a. full of rigors; harsh; rigidly accurate; precise





rile

v. irritate; stir to anger; stir up liquid; muddy





riveting

a. wholly absorbing one's attention





rout

v. put to disorderly flight or retreat; drive out; cause to flee; defeat overwhelmingly





ruffian

n. bully; lawless and cruel; cruel and brutal person or gangster





saccharine

a. having a cloyingly sweet attitude, tone, or character; overly sweet





sacrilegious

a. acting or speaking very disrespectfully toward what is held to be sacred; violating sacred things; profane





sagacious

a. perceptive; shrewd; having insight





salient

a. prominent or protruding; projecting outwardly; moving by leaps or springs





salutary

a. tending to improve; beneficial; favorable to health





sanction

v. give authorization or approval to something; penalize a state, especially for violating international law





sanguine

a. cheerfully confident; optimistic; of healthy reddish color; ruddy





sardonic

a. disdainful or ironically humorous; cynical; scornful and mocking





satire

n. form of literature in which irony and ridicule are used to attack human vice and folly





savory

a. appetizing to taste or smell; salty or Non-Sweet; pleasing, attractive, or agreeable





scamp

n. one that is dishonest or troublemaker, especially an impish youngster





scanty

a. somewhat less than needed in amplitude or extent; insufficient





schism

n. separation or division into factions; formal division or split within religious body





scruple

v. hesitate as a result of conscience or principle





scrupulous

a. precisely and carefully conducted; by extreme care and great effort; cautious





scurvy

a. fit or deserving to be despised; contemptible; worthless; mean; shabby





sear

v. make very hot and dry; become superficially burned





seclusion

n. isolation; solitude; secluded place; shutting out or keeping apart





secular

a. worldly rather than spiritual; not specifically relating to religion; lasting from century to century





sedentary

a. requiring sitting; involving little exercise or physical activity; living in one area, not migratory





sedition

n. resistance to authority; insubordination or rebellion





seep

v. pass gradually or leak through, as if through small openings





seminal

a. influential in an original way; providing the basis for further development; creative





seminary

n. school, especially a theological school for the training of priests; school of higher education, especially for girls





serendipity

n. gift for finding valuable or desirable things by accident; accidental good fortune or luck





serpentine

a. winding; twisting; curving in alternate directions; having the shape or form of a snake





serrated

a. saw-like; having a row of sharp or tooth-like projections





servitude

n. forced labor imposed as a punishment for crime; lack of personal freedom





shackle

v. chain; fetter; restraint that confines or restricts freedom





shear

v. cut or clip hair; a strip of something; remove by cutting or clipping





shun

v. avoid deliberately; keep away from





shyster

n. a lawyer using questionable methods; an unethical lawyer or politician





simplistic

a. overly simple; simplifying something so that its complexity is lost or important details are overlooked





simulate

v. make a pretense of; reproduce someone's behavior or looks





sinewy

a. tough; strong and firm; possessing physical strength and weight





sinuous

a. winding; bending in and out; not morally honest





skeptic

n. doubter; a person who suspends judgment until evidence has been examined





skiff

n. small, light sailboat; small boat propelled by oars





skimp

v. provide for or supply inadequately; deal with hastily, carelessly, or with poor material





skirmish

n. minor battle in war; minor or preliminary conflict or dispute





skulk

v. move furtively and secretly; hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner





sleight

n. skillful performance or ability in using hands; dexterity





slough

v. cast off hair, skin, horn, or feathers; discard as refuse





slur

v. speak indistinctly; pass over carelessly or with little notice





smelt

v. melt or blend ores, changing their chemical composition





snicker

n. laugh in half-suppressed or foolish manner; disrespectful laugh





sojourn

n. temporary stay; a brief period of residence; place of temporary stay





solicit

v. request earnestly; seek to obtain by persuasion or formal application





solicitous

a. worried or concerned; full of desire; expressing care or concern





soliloquy

n. talking to oneself; the act of a character speaking to himself to reveal his thoughts to the audience





soluble

a. able to be dissolved; able to be explained





solvent

a. able to pay all debts; capable of meeting financial obligations





somber

a. gloomy; depressing or grave; dull or dark in color





sonorous

a. having or producing full, loud, or deep sound; impressive in the style of speech; easy to feel





sparse

a. occurring, growing, or settled at widely spaced intervals; not thick or dense





spartan

a. avoiding luxury and comfort; sternly disciplined





spate

n. sudden flood or strong outburst; sudden heavy fall of rain





spatial

a. relating to space; existing in or connected with space





sporadic

a. occurring at irregular intervals; having no pattern or order in time





sportive

a. playful; relating to or interested in sports





spry

a. vigorously active; active, as in leaping or running





squabble

n. a minor quarrel; a noisy quarrel, usually about a trivial matter





squalor

n. filthy and wretched condition or quality; dirty or neglected state





stagnant

a. not moving or flowing; lacking vitality or briskness; stale; dull





stalemate

n. deadlock; the situation in which further action is blocked





stalwart

a. marked by imposing physical strength; firmly built; firm, and resolute





stanza

n. unit of poem, written or printed as a paragraph





stasis

n. condition of balance among various forces; inactivity resulting from a static balance





steadfast

a. firmly or constant loyal; fixed or unchanging





stifle

v. interrupt or cut off voice; keep in or hold back; suppress; conceal or hide





stigma

n. symbol of disgrace; small mark, like scar or birthmark; mark made with a red-hot iron





stint

n. length of time spent in a particular way; allotted amount; limitation or restriction





stipend

n. fixed and regular payment, such as salary for services or allowance





stipulate

v. specify or arrange in agreement; express demand in agreement; promise in agreement





stodgy

a. dull, unimaginative, and commonplace; old-fashioned; stuffy





stoic

a. indifferent to or unaffected by joy, grief, pleasure, or pain





stoke

v. stir up fire; feed plentifully; supply a furnace with fuel





stolid

a. dull; impassive; having or revealing little emotion or sensibility





stringent

a. demanding strict attention to rules and procedures; binding; rigid





strut

n. supporting bar or rod; proud step or walk, with the head erect; stubbornness





stupor

n. state of reduced or suspended sensibility; daze; lack of awareness





subdued

a. conquered; overpowered; becoming quieter; not glaring in color; soft in tone





subjective

a. occurring or taking place in a person's mind rather than the external world; unreal





subliminal

a. below the threshold of conscious perception, especially if still able to produce a response





subordinate

a. occupying lower rank; inferior; submissive





subservient

a. behaving like slave; subordinate in capacity or function





subsidiary

a. subordinate; secondary; serving to assist or supplement





subsidy

n. direct financial aid by the government





subsistence

n. something that has real or substantial existence; means of support or maintain life





substantiate

v. establish by evidence; make firm or solid; support





substantive

a. essential; not imaginary; actual or real





subterfuge

n. pretense; something intended to misrepresent





subversive

a. tending to overthrow; in opposition to civil authority or government





succinct

a. brief or compact; by clear, precise expression in few words





succumb

v. submit to an overpowering force; yield to an overwhelming desire; give up or give in





sultry

a. burning hot; extremely and unpleasantly hot





sumptuous

a. magnificent and splendid, suggesting abundance and great expense; luxurious





supercilious

a. arrogant; feeling or showing haughty disdain; overbearing





superfluous

a. being beyond what is required or sufficient





supersede

v. be placed in or take the room of; replace; make obsolete; make void or useless by superior power





supposition

n. act of supposing; something supposed; assumption





surmise

v. guess; infer something without sufficiently conclusive evidence





surmount

v. overcome or conquer; climb; place something above; be above or on top of





surpass

v. be or go beyond, as in degree or quality; exceed





sustenance

n. act of sustaining; something, especially food, that sustains life or health





swarthy

a. dark; dusky; naturally having the skin of a dark color





swindler

n. cheat; one who defrauds or does a practice of defrauding others





sycophant

n. one who attempts to win favor by flattering influential people; bootlicker; yes man





synthesis

n. combining parts into a coherent whole; putting of two or more things together





tacit

a. indicated or understood without expressed directly; not speaking; silent





taciturn

a. silent or reserved in speech; saying little; not inclined to speak or converse





tactile

a. used for feeling; relating to a sense of touch; perceptible to the sense of touch; tangible





tantamount

a. equivalent in effect or value





tarry

v. delay; leave slowly and hesitantly; wait





taut

a. pulled or drawn tight; kept in trim shape; neat and tidy





temperate

a. restrained; self-controlled; moderate in degree or quality





tenacity

n. firmness of hold or of purpose; persistence





tenuous

a. long and thin; slender; having little substance





tepid

a. moderately warm; lacking in emotional warmth or enthusiasm; halfhearted





terminology

n. a vocabulary of technical terms used in a particular field, subject, science, or art





terminus

n. last stop of a railroad; final point or end; boundary or border





terrestrial

a. earthly, as opposed to celestial; pertaining to the land





terse

a. effectively concise; appearing as if wiped or rubbed, as smooth





thespian

a. relating to drama and acting; dramatic, theatrical





thrifty

a. careful about money; economical





throe

n. a severe pang of pain, as in childbirth; condition of agonizing struggle or trouble





throng

n. large group of people gathered or crowded closely together





thwart

v. hinder or prevent of ; frustrate





tiller

n. lever used to turn a rudder and steer a boat; drawer in table, chest, or counter





timidity

n. lack of self-confidence or courage





tome

n. large volume; large and scholarly book





topography

n. physical features of a region; detailed, precise description of a place





torrent

n. rushing stream; flood; heavy downpour





torrid

a. passionate; hot or scorching; hurried or rapid





tortuous

a. marked by repeated turns or bends; winding or twisting; not straightforward; circuitous





tractable

a. easily managed or controlled; governable; easily handled or worked; docile





transcendent

a. surpassing; exceeding ordinary limits; superior





transgression

n. violation of law, command, or duty; exceeding of due bounds or limits





transitory

a. existing or lasting only a short time; short-lived or temporary





translucent

a. partly transparent; transmitting rays of light without permitting objects to be distinctly seen





traverse

v. go through or across, often under difficult conditions





treatise

n. systematic, usually extensive written discourse on a subject





tremor

n. shaking or vibrating movement; slight quiver





trepidation

n. state of alarm or dread; nervous apprehension; involuntary trembling or quivering





trifling

a. trivial; of slight worth or importance; frivolous or idle





trinket

n. cheap showy jewelry or ornament on clothing





tumult

n. noise, as made by a crowd; riot or uprising





turbid

a. muddy; having sediment disturbed; heavy, dark, or dense, like smoke or fog





turncoat

n. traitor; one who turns against previous affiliation or allegiance





tutelage

n. the capacity of guardian; guardianship; capacity or activity of tutor; instruction or teaching





ubiquitous

a. being or existing everywhere; omnipresent





unanimity

n. complete agreement in opinion or resolution of all persons concerned





unassuming

a. modest; not bold or forward; not arrogant





uncouth

a. lacking refinement or cultivation or taste





unequivocal

a. admitting of no doubt or misunderstanding; clear and unambiguous





unfathomable

a. difficult or impossible to understand; difficult or impossible to measure





ungainly

a. awkward; lacking grace in movement or posture





uniformity

n. sameness or consistency; freedom from variation or difference





unimpeachable

a. free of guilt; not subject to blame; completely acceptable





unruly

a. difficult or impossible to discipline, control, or rule; not according to rule; irregularly





untenable

a. indefensible; not able to be maintained





unwarranted

a. having no justification; groundless; not guaranteed to be good, sound, or of a certain quality





unwieldy

a. difficult to use or handle because of size or weight, or shape; lacking grace in movement or posture





upbraid

v. severely criticize; reprimand; reprove sharply





upshot

n. final result; outcome or effect; central idea or point; gist





usurp

v. seize and hold power or rights of another by force or without legal authority





utopia

n. ideally perfect place, especially in its social, political, and moral aspects





vagabond

n. a person without a permanent home who moves from place to place; a wanderer; tramp





vantage

n. place or situation affording some advantage, especially good view





vapid

a. dull and unimaginative; lacking taste or flavor





vaporize

v. turn into vapor, steam, gas, or fog; decrease rapidly and disappear





veer

v. shift to clockwise direction; turn sharply; change direction abruptly





vehement

a. forceful; intensely emotional; inclined to react violently





veneer

n. thin layer; coating consisting of thin layer; ornamental coating to a building





venerable

a. deserving high respect; impressive because of age; profoundly honored





ventriloquist

n. one who can make his voice seem to come from another person or thing





veracity

n. truthfulness; unwillingness to tell lies





verbatim

ad. using exactly the same words; corresponding word for word





verdant

a. green; full of juice in vegetation





vernacular

n. everyday speech of people, as distinguished from literary language; standard native language of a locality





vernal

a. related to spring; suggestive of youth; vigorous and fresh





versatile

a. having many talents; capable of working in many fields





vertigo

n. severe dizziness; reeling sensation; feeling about to fall





verve

n. enthusiasm or liveliness; energetic style





vestige

n. trace; remains; an indication that something has happened





vicarious

a. acting as a substitute; done by deputy; experienced at secondhand





vindicate

v. clear from blame; exonerate; maintain, uphold, or defend





virile

a. marked by energy and vigor; manly; able to copulate, as for male





virtuoso

n. a highly skilled artist, as a musician; one who is dazzlingly skilled in his field





virulent

a. extremely poisonous; hostile; bitter





visceral

a. felt in one's inner organs; obtained through intuition rather than from reasoning or observation





viscous

a. sticky; gluey; having high resistance to flow





vivacious

a. animated; lively; vigorous and active





vogue

n. popular fashion; current state or style of general acceptance and use





voluminous

a. large in volume or bulk; large in number or quantity, especially of discourse





voluptuous

a. giving pleasure or satisfaction of the senses; having strong sexual appeal





voracious

a. ravenous; excessively greedy and grasping; devouring or craving food in great quantities





vouchsafe

v. guarantee as safe; secure; promise or agree condescendingly, as a special favor; permit





voyeur

n. a viewer who enjoys seeing sex acts or sex organs of others





waft

v. cause to go gently and smoothly through the air or over water





waif

n. homeless person, especially orphaned child; abandoned young animal





wane

v. decrease in size or strength; draw gradually to an end





wanton

a. unrestrained; willfully malicious; immoral or unchaste





wean

v. gradually deprive infants of mother's milk; detach affections of





whet

v. sharpen, as knife; make more keen; stimulate





whimsical

a. determined by chance or impulse or whim rather than by necessity or reason; capricious





whinny

v. neigh, as a horse, especially in gentle tone; cry of a horse





whittle

v. reduce or eliminate gradually, with a knife; cut small bits off





wily

a. cunning; full of tricks; skill in deception





wince

v. the drawback or shrink involuntarily, as in pain or from a blow





windfall

n. a sudden, unexpected piece of good fortune or personal gain





wistful

a. full of wishful yearning or longing; sadly thoughtful





writhe

v. move in a twisting or contorted motion; contort in pain





wry

a. turned to one side; twisted; marked by humorous twist, often with a touch of irony





yeoman

n. common person, or one of the common of the first or most respectable class; freeholder; man free born





yield

n. amount produced; crop; income on investment; the energy released by an explosion





zany

a. comical because of strangeness; ludicrously comical; clownish; bizarre





zeal

n. intense interest; eagerness to accomplish some object





zenith

n. point directly overhead in the sky; summit





Chapter 9: Level 3 - 1





abase

v. humiliate; lower or depress in rank or esteem





abash

v. embarrass; make ashamed or uneasy; disconcert





abdicate

v. give up, renounce, abandon, lay down, or withdraw from, as a right or claim





abet

v. aid, usually in doing something wrong; encourage





abjure

v. renounce upon oath; abandon forever





ablution

n. washing or cleansing of the body, especially as part of religious rite





abnegate

v. give up or surrender; deny something to oneself





abnegation

n. repudiation; self-sacrifice; renouncing your own interests in favor of interests of others





abrade

v. wear away by friction; scrape; erode





abridge

v. condense; shorten; reduce length of written text





abrogate

a. abolish, do away with, or annul, especially by authority





abscond

v. leave quickly and secretly and hide oneself, often to avoid arrest or prosecution





abstemious

a. sparing or moderation in eating and drinking; temperate





acclimate

v. accustom or become accustomed to a new environment or situation; adapt





acclivity

n. upward slope, as of hill





accolade

n. award of merit; expression of approval; praise





accost

v. approach and speak to boldly or aggressively, as with demand or request





accouter

v. equip; provide with military equipment





accretion

n. growth or increase in size by gradual external addition, fusion, or inclusion





acerbity

n. the bitterness of speech and temper; sourness or acidness of taste, character, or tone





acetic

a. having properties of vinegar; sour





acidulous

a. slightly sour in taste or manner; sharp; caustic





acrimonious

a. bitter and sharp in language, tone, or manner





acrophobia

n. fear of heights; abnormal fear of high places





actuarial

a. calculating; pertaining to insurance statistics





acuity

n. sharpness; acuteness of vision or perception; keenness





addle

v. muddle; drive crazy; become confused





adjoin

v. be next to; be contiguous to; border on





adjudicate

v. hear and settle a case by judicial procedure





adjunct

n. something added on or attached generally nonessential or inferior





adjure

v. appeal to or entreat earnestly; command or enjoin solemnly, as under oath





admonition

n. gentle or friendly reproof; cautionary advice or warning





adulation

n. excessive flattery or admiration; unmerited praise





adulterate

v. make impure by adding inferior or tainted substances





adumbrate

v. give hint or indication of something; disclose partially or guardedly; overshadow; shade





adventitious

a. accidental; casual; not inherent but added extrinsically





aerie

n. nest of a bird, such as an eagle, built on a cliff or other high place





affix

v. fasten; append; add on; secure to something





affluence

n. abundance; a plentiful supply of material goods; wealth





agglomeration

n. collection; heap; act or process of gathering into a mass





aggrandize

v. increase the scope of; extend; intensify; make greater in power, influence, stature, or reputation





agnostic

n. one who is skeptical of the existence of a god or any ultimate reality





alacrity

n. cheerful promptness or willingness; eagerness; speed or quickness





algorithm

n. established procedure for solving problem





alimentary

a. providing nourishment; concerned with food, nutrition, or digestion





allay

v. calm; pacify; reduce the intensity of; relieve





allegory

n. symbolic representation of abstract ideas or principles in narrative, dramatic, or pictorial form





alliteration

n. repetition of a beginning sound in poetry





amalgamate

v. combine; unite in one body; mix or alloy metal with mercury





amass

v. collect; gather for oneself, as for one's pleasure or profit





ambidextrous

a. capable of using either hand with equal ease





ambivalence

n. state of having contradictory or conflicting emotional attitudes, such as love and hate





amble

n. moving at an easy pace; walk slowly or leisurely





ambulatory

a. able to walk; formed or adapted for walking; not stationary





ameliorate

v. make or become better; improve; grow better





amity

n. friendship; peaceful relations, as between nations





amorphous

a. formless; lacking shape or definition





amphitheater

n. oval building with tiers of seats from central open space or arena





amplify

v. broaden or clarify by expanding; intensify; make larger or more powerful; increase





anachronistic

a. having time error in the story; erroneous in date; in the wrong time





analgesic

a. serving to reduce sensibility to pain without loss of consciousness





anathema

n. solemn curse; someone or something regarded as a curse





ancestry

n. family descent; series or line of ancestors; lineage





ancillary

a. serving as aid or accessory; auxiliary





angular

a. sharp-cornered; consisting of an angle or angles; stiff in manner





animus

n. the feeling of enmity or ill will; an attitude that informs one's actions; disposition





annotate

v. comment; make explanatory notes





anodyne

n. source of relaxation or comfort; medicine that relieves pain





antecede

v. precede; go before in time, and sometimes in place, rank, or logical order





antecedents

n. preceding events or circumstances that influence what comes later; ancestors or early background





antediluvian

a. antiquated; extremely old and ancient; belonging to very ancient times





anthology

n. book of literary selections by various authors





anthropocentric

a. regarding human beings as the center of the universe





anthropoid

a. manlike; resembling a human, especially in shape or outward appearance





anthropomorphic

a. having human form or characteristics





anticlimax

n. the letdown in thought or emotion; decline viewed in disappointing contrast with the previous rise





antipathy

n. strong feeling of aversion; dislike





aphasia

n. loss of speech due to injury or illness





aphorism

n. definition or concise statement of principle; tersely phrased statement of truth or opinion





apiary

n. a place where bees and beehives are kept, especially where bees are raised for their honey





aplomb

n. poise; self-confident assurance





apogee

n. the highest point; point in an orbit most distant from the body being orbited





apolitical

a. having aversion or lack of concern for political affairs





apologist

n. a person who argues in defense or justification of something, such as doctrine, policy, or institution





apostate

n. one who abandons his religious faith or political beliefs





apotheosis

n. elevation to godhood; fact or action of becoming a god; an ideal example of something





appall

v. depress or discourage with fear; grow faint or become weak





append

v. attach; add as supplement or appendix





apposite

a. strikingly appropriate and relevant; well-suited





appraise

v. estimate value of; evaluate, especially in an official capacity





apprenticeship

n. the term during which one learns a trade from a skilled worker; service or legal condition of an apprentice





apprise

v. inform; give notice to; make aware





archetype

n. prototype; original model or type after which other similar things are patterned





aristocracy

n. hereditary nobility; privileged class





arraign

v. officially charge someone in a court of law





arrogate

v. claim without justification; claim for oneself without the right





artisan

n. manually skilled worker; craftsman, as opposed to an artist





aseptic

a. preventing infection; having cleansing effect





ashen

a. ash-colored; very pale; consisting of ashes





askance

a. with a sideways or indirect look; Turned to side, especially of eyes





asperity

n. the sharpness of temper; roughness or harshness, as of surface, sound, or climate





aspirant

n. one who aspires, as to advancement, honors, or a high position





assay

v. analyze; evaluate; examine by trial or experiment; put to the test





astigmatism

n. eye defect that prevents proper focus





astringent

a. causing contraction; having the effect of drawing tissue together; stern or austere





asymmetric

a. not identical on both sides of a dividing central line





atavism

n. resemblance to remote ancestors rather than to parents; deformity returning after the passage of two or more generations





atavistic

a. displaying characteristics of previous cultural era or previous ancestral form





atheistic

a. denying existence of God; godless





attenuate

v. make slender, fine, or small; weaken; lessen the density of





attrition

n. a gradual decrease in numbers; reduction in the workforce without firing employees; wearing away through harassment





atypical

a. not normal; unusual or irregular; not representative of a group, class, or type





aureole

n. the outermost region of the sun's atmosphere; halo





auroral

a. characteristic of dawn; dawning, eastern, like a new beginning; relating to the atmospheric phenomenon auroras





authenticate

v. prove genuine; establish authenticity of





authoritarian

a. expecting absolute obedience; completely dominating another's will





autocrat

n. dictator; ruler having unlimited power





autocratic

a. having absolute, unchecked power; dictatorial





automaton

n. the mechanism that imitates actions of humans





autonomous

a. self-governing; not controlled by others or by outside forces; independent





avocation

n. activity taken up in addition to one's regular work or profession, usually for enjoyment





avuncular

a. in the manner of an uncle, about uncle; kind, genial, benevolent, or tolerant





bacchanalian

a. drunken; relating to reveling and drunkenness





badinage

n. teasing conversation; good-humored, playful conversation





bantering

a. good-natured ridiculing; cleverly amusing in tone





barterer

n. trader; one who trades goods for other goods without involving money





bate

v. let down; restrain; lessen force or intensity of; moderate





beatific

a. completely happy and contented; showing or producing exalted joy





beatitude

n. blessedness; state of extreme happiness





becalm

v. keep from motion, or stop the progress of; make calm or still





beckon

v. signal or summon, as by nodding or waving; attract because of inviting or enticing appearance





becloud

v. make less visible; obscure or blur; darken with or as if with clouds





bedizen

v. ornament something in showy, tasteless, or gaudy finery





bedraggle

v. wet thoroughly; stain with mud; soil or wet by dragging in the dirt, mud, moist places





befuddle

v. confuse thoroughly; becloud and confuse, as with liquor; make stupid with alcohol





beleaguer

v. besiege or attack; harass; surround with troops





bellicose

a. warlike or hostile in manner or temperament; showing or having the impulse to be combative





bemoan

v. regret strongly; express disapproval of





bemused

a. confused; lost in thought; preoccupied





bestial

a. beastlike; brutal; lacking in intelligence or reason





betoken

v. signify; indicate; be a visible sign of; give evidence of





betroth

v. become engaged to marry; promise to marry





bevy

n. large group; a group of animals or birds, especially larks or quail





bewilder

v. lead into perplexity or confusion; perplex with mazes





bicameral

a. composed of or based on two legislative chambers or branches





biennial

a. every two years; lasting or living for two years





billowing

a. swelling out in waves; surging; stormy; affected by storms





bivouac

n. temporary encampment; a site where people on holiday can pitch a tent





blandishment

n. flattery; speech or action expressive of affection or kindness, and tending to win the heart





blare

n. loud, harsh roar or screech; a dazzling blaze of light





blench

v. a drawback, from lack of courage or resolution; turn pale, as if in fear





blighted

a. suffering from a disease; destroyed, ruined, or spoiled





bludgeon

n. short heavy club, usually of wood; heavy-headed weapon





bombardment

n. attack with missiles; continuous attack with shot and shell upon a town, fort, or other position





bombastic

a. pompous; using inflated language; high-sounding but with little meaning





bovine

a. dull, slow-moving, and stolid, like an ox; placid and dull





bowdlerize

v. edit by omitting or modifying parts considered offensive, vulgar, or otherwise unseemly





brandish

v. move or wave, as a weapon; raise and move in various directions





brindled

a. of brownish, tawny color, with streaks, spots, or patterns





bristling

a. rising like bristles; showing irritation





bristly

a. having or covered with protective barbs or others; very irritable





broil

v. cook by direct exposure to heat over fire; subject to great heat; be subjected to the action of heat; be greatly heated





buccaneer

n. pirate; robber upon the sea





bucolic

a. rustic; pastoral; agricultural; relating to country affairs, or to shepherd's life and occupation





buffoonery

n. clowning; arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculous pranks, vulgar tricks, and postures





bumptious

a. offensively self-assertive; liable to give or take offense; forward; pushing





bungle

v. mismanage; blunder; work or act in clumsy, awkward, or blundering manner





burgeon

v. grow forth; send out buds; grow or develop rapidly





bursar

n. treasurer or keeper of funds; purser or treasurer of college or other community





buttress

v. support physically; prop up; support something or someone by supplying evidence





cabal

n. a small group of persons secretly united to promote their own interests





cacophonous

a. discordant; inharmonious; sounding harsh; ill-sounding





cadaverous

a. like a corpse; pale; Having appearance or color of dead human body





cadence

n. rhythmic rise and fall of words or sounds; beat





cajole

v. influence or urge by gentle urging or flattering





caldron

n. large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron





callow

a. youthful; immature; inexperienced; without feathers





calorific

a. capable of producing heat; causing heat; heating





canny

a. having pleasing or useful qualities; gentle; knowing; cautious; cunning; shrewd





cantankerous

a. ill-humored; irritable; marked by ill-tempered contradiction or opposition; ugly; malicious





cantata

n. story or poem set to music that a chorus can sing





canto

n. part or division of poem of some length





capitulate

v. surrender; end all resistance; give up; go along with or comply





captious

a. intended to confuse in an argument





captivate

v. charm; enthrall; seize by force, as an enemy in war, or anything belonging to an enemy





careen

v. lean to one side, as a ship under a press of sail; sway from side to side





careworn

a. worn or burdened with care; showing the signs of long-term stresses





carping

a. fault-finding; excessive complaining; of unreasonable criticism or censure





cartographer

n. one who makes maps or charts





castigate

v. criticize severely; punish; revise or make corrections to the publication





cataclysm

n. an event resulting in great loss and misfortune; deluge or overflowing of water





catcall

n. a shout of disapproval; shout or whistle expressing dislike, especially from crowd or audience





catechism

n. book for religious instruction; instruction by question and answer





categorical

a. absolute; having no exception; of using category or categories





caulk

v. make watertight by filling in cracks





cavil

v. criticize for petty or frivolous reasons; raise trivial objections





cede

v. yield or formally resign and surrender to another





censorious

a. critical; severe in making remarks on others, or on their writings or manners; implying or expressing censure





centigrade

a. a measure of temperature used widely in Europe





centrifugal

a. radiating; departing from the center





centripetal

a. tending toward center; moving or directed toward center or axis





centurion

n. officer of the ancient Roman army, in command of a century of soldiers or minor division





ceremonious

a. marked by formality; strictly observant of or devoted to ceremony or ritual





certitude

n. state of being certain; complete assurance; confidence





chaffing

a. joking; use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule





chalice

n. goblet; bowl-shaped drinking vessel; large drinking cup, often having stem and base





chary

a. cautious; sparing or restrained about giving





chasten

v. rid of excess; refine or purify; correct by punishment or reproof





cherubic

a. angelic; innocent-looking; like a baby; infantile





chicanery

n. mean or unfair artifice to obscure truth; deception by trickery or sophistry





choleric

a. hot-tempered; easily angered; bad-tempered; expressing anger





chortle

v. chuckle with delight; joyful laugh or chuckle; laugh quietly or with restraint





churlish

a. difficult to work with; rude; unyielding; unmanageable





circumlocution

n. indirect or roundabout expression; evasion in speech or writing





circumscribe

v. limit narrowly; confine; draw a line around; encircle





citadel

n. fortress; a fortified place which people could go for shelter during a battle





clamber

v. climb with difficulty, especially on all fours; climb by crawling





clangor

n. loud, resounding noise; sharp, metallic, ringing sound; resonant, clanging sound





climactic

a. relating to the highest point; ascending or leading to climax





clime

n. region; climate; particular region as defined by its weather or climate





cloying

a. distasteful because excessive; excessively sweet, or sentimental





coagulate

v. cause transformation of liquid into or as if into soft, semisolid, or solid mass





coalesce

v. combine; fuse; grow together; come together to form one whole; unite





codify

v. arrange laws, rules as a code; classify; arrange or systematize





cogency

n. power of proving or of producing belief; quality of being highly probable or convincing; force; credibility





cogent

a. reasonable and convincing; based on evidence; forcefully persuasive





cogitate

v. think earnestly or studiously; meditate; ponder; think deeply





cognate

a. related by blood; having common ancestor; related or analogous in nature, character, or function





cognizance

n. knowledge or recognition; awareness; a range of what one can know or understand





cohere

v. stick or hold together in a mass that resists separation





coherence

n. logical and orderly and consistent relation of parts; state of cohering or sticking together





colander

n. bowl-shaped strainer used to wash or drain foods





collate

v. examine in order to verify authenticity; arrange in order





colloquial

a. of informal spoken language or conversation; conversational or chatty





commandeer

v. force into military service; take for public use; seize for military use; take arbitrarily or by force





commodious

a. spacious and comfortable; fit; proper; convenient





compensatory

a. serving to compensate or as compensation; making amends; repaying





complaisant

a. trying to please; showing cheerful willingness to do favors for others





complementary

a. serving to fill out or to complete; supplying mutual needs or offsetting mutual lacks





complicity

n. participation; involvement as partner or accomplice, especially in a crime or other wrongdoing





concerted

a. planned or accomplished together; combined





concomitantly

ad. existing concurrently; in company or combination





condole

v. grieve; express sympathy; speak sympathetically to one in pain, grief, or misfortune





conformity

n. similarity in form or character; agreement





confound

v. cause to become confused or perplexed; fail to distinguish; mix up





consanguineous

a. of the same lineage or origin; having a common ancestor





constrain

v. restrain; keep within close bounds; confine





contentious

a. quarrelsome; disagreeable; marked by heated arguments or controversy





continence

n. self-control; self-restraint; partial or complete abstention from sexual activity





controvert

v. oppose with arguments; attempt to prove to be false or incorrect; contradict





convalesce

v. recover gradually from an illness





convoke

v. call together; cause to assemble in a meeting; convene





coquette

n. flirt; a seductive woman who uses her sex appeal to exploit men





corrode

v. destroy metal or alloy gradually, especially by chemical action; be eaten or worn away





corrugated

a. wrinkled; shaped into alternating parallel grooves and ridges





coterie

n. a group that meets socially; an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose





countermand

v. cancel; revoke command or order; order or direct in opposition to; prohibit; forbid





countervail

v. act or react with equal force; ; counteract





cull

v. pick out from others; weed out; remove rejected members or parts from





culminate

v. reach the highest or most decisive point; rise to the summit





culvert

n. artificial channel for water; sewer or drain crossing under the road





cumbersome

a. heavy; difficult to handle because of weight or bulk





curtail

v. cut short or reduce; cut off end or tail, or any part





cynosure

n. an object that serves as a focal point of attention and admiration; something that strongly attracts attention





dappled

a. spotted; having mottled or spotted skin or coat





daub

v. smear as with paint; apply with quick or crude strokes to surface; make crude paintings





daunt

v. frighten; abate the courage of; discourage





deadpan

a. wooden; impersonal; deliberately impassive or expressionless, as face or look





debase

v. reduce in quality or value; lower in esteem; degrade





debilitate

v. make weak; enfeeble; impair the strength of





debunk

v. expose as false, exaggerated, worthless; ridicule





decelerate

v. slow down the rate of advancement of; decrease speed of





deciduous

a. falling off as of leaves; falling off or shed at specific season or stage of growth





declaim

v. speak loudly and vehemently; make formal speech





decollete

a. having low-necked dress





decrepitude

n. state of collapse caused by illness or old age





decry

v. express strong disapproval of; disparage





deducible

a. capable of being derived by reasoning from known principles or facts





deface

v. mar or spoil appearance or surface; impair usefulness, value, or influence of





defame

v. harm someone's reputation; degrade; bring into disrepute; make infamous





defeatist

a. the attitude of one who is ready to accept defeat as a natural outcome





defection

n. withdrawing support; the act of abandoning something to which one is bound by allegiance or duty; failure in duty





defoliate

v. strip leaves or branches from; cause leaves of plant, tree, or forest to fall off, especially by use of chemicals





dehydrate

v. remove water from; dry out; lose water or bodily fluids





deify

v. turn into a god; idolize or idealize; worship or revere as a god





deleterious

a. having a harmful effect; injurious; having the quality of destroying life; noxious; poisonous





delineate

v. portray; depict; draw or trace the outline of; sketch out





demagogue

n. a person who appeals to people's prejudice; false leader of people





demoniac

a. extremely evil or cruel; possessed or controlled by a demon





demystify

v. clarify; free from mystery or obscurity





denigrate

v. blacken; defame; attack reputation of; degrade





denizen

n. an animal, plant, or person that lives in or is often in a particular place, a regular visitor





denotation

n. meaning or indication; distinguishing by name; something, such as a sign or symbol, that denotes





denouement

n. outcome; final resolution or clarification of dramatic or narrative plot





deprecate

v. express disapproval of; protest against; belittle





depreciate

v. lessen price or value of; think or speak of as being of little worth; belittle





depredation

n. plundering; destructive action; predatory attack; damage or loss





deride

v. ridicule; make fun of; laugh at with contempt





derogate

v. annul in part; repeal partly; restrict; limit the action of





descant

v. discuss fully; talk at great length about something of one's interest





Chapter 10: Level 3 - 2





desiccate

v. dry up thoroughly; make dry, dull, or lifeless; preserve foods by removing the moisture





despoil

v. deprive of something valuable by force; rob; take as spoils





despot

n. tyrant; harsh, authoritarian ruler; eastern Orthodox bishop





detraction

n. slandering; act of discrediting from someone's reputation





devotee

n. enthusiastic follower; one who is devoted or self-dedicated to a cause or practice





dictatorial

a. pertaining or suited to a dictator; absolute





differentiate

v. set apart; distinguish; perceive or show the difference in or between





disband

v. loose bands of; set free; disunite; scatter





discomfit

v. make uneasy or perplexed; cause to lose one's composure; disconcert





discomposure

n. state of being discomposed; disorder; agitation; disturbance; inconsistency; disagreement





disconcert

v. confuse; frustrate by throwing into disorder; embarrass





disconsolate

a. sad; cheerless; gloomy; hopeless or not expecting





discursive

a. tending to depart from the main point or cover a wide range of subjects





disembark

v. go ashore from a ship; unload cargo from a ship; leave a vehicle or aircraft





disenfranchise

v. deprive of civil right; deprive someone of a franchise, generally their right to vote





disfigure

v. change the appearance of something or someone to the negative; deform





disgorge

v. bring up and expel from throat or stomach; vomit; discharge or pour forth contents





disgruntle

v. cause being in bad temper; disappoint; disconcert





dishearten

v. discourage; cause to lose courage or hope





disinclination

n. unwillingness; lack of inclination; mild aversion





disinter

v. dig up; unearth; dig up or remove from grave or tomb; bring to public notice





disparate

a. fundamentally distinct or different in kind; entirely dissimilar





dispassionate

a. calm; impartial; unaffected by strong emotion or prejudice





dispirited

a. lacking in spirit; affected or marked by low spirits





disputatious

a. argumentative; fond of arguing; inclined to dispute





disseminate

v. distribute; spread; scatter like seeds





dissenter

n. one who differs in opinion, or one who declares his disagreement





dissimulate

v. pretend; hide feelings from other people





dissolution

n. breaking of union; decomposition into fragments or parts; extinction of life; decay





dissonance

n. discord; disagreeable sounds; a harsh, disagreeable combination of sounds





distend

v. swell out or expand from or as if from internal pressure





distill

v. give off liquid; purify; refine; increase the concentration of





diurnal

a. daily; relating to or occurring in a 24-hour period





diverge

v. vary; go in different directions from the same point





doctrinaire

a. unable to compromise about points of doctrine; unyielding





doff

v. take off; remove; tip or remove one's hat in salutation; put aside; discard





doggerel

n. poor verse; of crude or irregular construction





doldrums

n. period of depression or unhappy listlessness; slack period; state of inactivity





doleful

a. sorrowful; filled with or expressing grief; mournful





domineer

v. rule or exercise power in cruel; rule over or control arbitrarily





dormer

n. a window set vertically into a small gable projecting from the sloping roof; sleeping-room





draconian

a. extremely harsh; very severe, oppressive, or strict





drench

v. wet through and through; soak; put potion down the throat of; steep in moisture; wet thoroughly





ductile

a. easily influenced; flexible; pliable





dumbfound

v. fill with astonishment and perplexity; confound





dwindle

v. shrink; reduce in size; become less





ebullient

a. showing excitement; overflowing with enthusiasm





eccentricity

n. oddity; departure from that which is stated, regular, or usual; deviation from the center





ecclesiastic

n. minister or priest; cleric; one holding an office in the Christian ministry





edify

v. instruct or correct, especially to encourage intellectual, moral, or spiritual improvement





effectual

a. able to produce the desired effect; valid





effervescence

n. inner excitement or exuberance; a process of bubbling as gas escapes





efficacy

n. power to produce desired effect





effluvia

n. waste; foul-smelling outflow or vapor





effusive

a. pouring forth; uttered with unrestrained enthusiasm





egoism

n. excessive interest in one's self; belief that one should be interested in one's self rather than in others





elate

a. lifted up; raised; elevated; fill with optimism





elegy

n. poem or song expressing lamentation; mournful poem





ellipsis

n. omission of words from a text; mark or series of marks used in writing to indicate omission





elucidate

v. make clear or plain, especially by explanation; clarify





emanate

v. come or send forth from a source, used chiefly of an intangible thing, as light





emancipate

v. free from bondage, oppression, or restraint; liberate





embellish

v. adorn; make beautiful, as by ornamentation; decorate





embroider

v. decorate with needlework; add details to





emend

v. correct; improve by critical editing; free from fault; alter for the better





emendation

n. correction of errors; removal of errors; alteration intended to improve





emollient

n. having a softening or soothing effect, especially on skin





encipher

v. encode; convert plain message into code





encircle

v. form a circle about; enclose within a circle or ring; surround





enclave

n. country or part of a country lying wholly within boundaries of another





encomium

n. high praise; formal expression of praise; a tribute





encompass

v. surround; form a circle or ring around; enclose; envelop





encumber

v. burden; put a heavy load on; load with debts or other legal claims





endemic

a. prevailing among a specific group of people or in a specific area or country





energize

v. give energy to; make forceful and active; supply with an electric current





enervate

v. weaken or destroy strength or vitality of; remove a nerve or part of a nerve





enfranchise

v. admit to rights of citizenship, especially the right to vote





engender

v. cause; bring into existence; give rise to





engrave

v. carve or cut into a block or surface, as used for printing; impress deeply as if by carving





engross

v. occupy exclusively; absorb; acquire most or all of; write or print the final draft of; make large or larger





engulf

v. absorb or swallow up as in a gulf; flow over or cover completely





enigmatic

a. obscure; puzzling; not easily explained or accounted for





enjoin

v. direct or impose with urgent appeal; order with emphasis





enrapture

v. please intensely; fill with great delight or joy





ensconce

v. settle oneself securely or comfortably; place or conceal in a secure place





enthrall

v. capture; attract and hold by charm, beauty, or excellence; hold in bondage or subjection





entitlement

n. right to claim something; right to benefits





enunciate

v. speak distinctly; state or set forth precisely or systematically; pronounce; articulate





epicure

n. a person with refined taste, especially in food and wine





epidermis

n. an outer, protective layer of skin of vertebrates





epigram

n. witty thought or saying, usually short; short, witty poem expressing a single thought or observation





epilogue


n. short speech at conclusion of dramatic work





episodic

a. loosely connected; divided into incidents; occurring or appearing at usually irregular intervals





epistolary

a. consisting of letters; written in the form of or carried on by letters





eponymous

a. giving one's name to a tribe, people, city, year, or period; regarded as founder or originator





equable

a. tranquil; not varying; uniform; not easily disturbed





equine

a. be similar or bear a likeness to horse; relating to horse





equivocate

v. lie; mislead; attempt to conceal the truth





ersatz

a. being an artificial and inferior substitute or imitation





erudite

a. learned; scholarly, with emphasis on knowledge gained from books





escapism

n. tendency to escape from daily reality by indulging in daydreaming, fantasy, or entertainment





eschew

v. avoid; refuse to use or participate in; stand aloof from





espy

v. catch sight of; glimpse; discover at a distance





ethos

n. disposition, character, or fundamental values peculiar to a specific person, people, culture, or movement





euphonious

a. pleasing or agreeable to ear; having a pleasant sound





evanescent

a. fleeting; vanishing or likely to vanish like vapor





evenhanded

a. impartial; fair; rightly balanced; equitable





exasperate

v. make worse; irritate; make very angry or impatient; annoy greatly





excavate

v. unearth; dig out; make a hole in; hollow out





exceptionable

a. open or liable to objection or debate; liable to cause disapproval





excerpt

n. passage or segment that is taken from a longer work, such as literary or musical composition





excoriate

v. scold with biting harshness; strip the skin off; abrade





exculpate

v. pronounce not guilty of criminal charges





execrable

a. very bad; extremely inferiorl; intolerable; very hateful





exegesis

n. explanation; interpretation, especially of biblical or religious text





exigency

n. urgent situation; state or quality of requiring much effort or immediate action





expatriate

n. someone who has withdrawn from his native land





explicate

v. explain; make clear the meaning of; unfold meaning or sense of





expository

a. explanatory; serving to explain





expropriate

v. take possession of; transfer another's property to oneself





expunge

v. cancel; remove; erase or strike out





expurgate

v. clean; remove offensive parts of book





extenuate

v. weaken; lessen or attempt to lessen the seriousness of, especially by providing partial excuses





extirpate

v. root out; eradicate, literally or figuratively; destroy wholly





extol

v. praise highly; glorify; celebrate





extrapolation

n. inference about future or hypothetical situation based on known facts





extrinsic

a. external; not essential; extraneous





extrovert

n. a person interested mostly in external objects and actions





extrude

v. force or push out; drive away; displace or remove, as a person from a place or office





exuberance

n. overflowing abundance; joyful enthusiasm; flamboyance; lavishness





exude

v. discharge; release liquid in drops or small quantities





exult

v. rejoice; feel extreme happiness





fatalism

n. the belief that forces beyond one's control determine events





fatuous

a. foolish or silly, especially in self-satisfied way





febrile

a. feverish; intense emotion or activity





fecundity

n. fertility; fruitfulness; productive or creative power





feral

a. not domestic; wild; existing in a wild or untamed state





fervid

a. extremely hot; eager; impassioned; burning





fictive

a. fictional, relating to imaginative creation





fidget

v. move uneasily one way and the other; behave or move nervously or restlessly





figurine

n. small ornamental statuette; small molded or sculptured figure





filch

v. steal, especially in a small, sly way; take from another on a petty scale, as by violation of trust





filial

a. having or assuming relationship of child or offspring to parent





finicky

a. insisting capriciously on getting just what one wants; difficult to please; fussy





firebrand

n. hothead; a person who stirs up trouble; a piece of burning wood





fitful

a. intermittently stopping and starting; irregular; variable; unstable





flabbergasted

a. astonished; appalled, amazed, or stunned





flaccid

a. acting in strength, firmness, or resilience





fleck

v. spot; make spot or mark onto; mark with small spots





flit

v. fly; dart lightly; pass swiftly by





flout

v. reject; mock; express contempt for rules by word or action; behave with contempt





fluctuate

v. rise and fall in or as if in waves; shift; vary irregularly





fluency

n. quality of smoothness of flow; quality of being fluent in language





fluster

v. confuse; hot and rosy, as with drinking; be in a heat or bustle; be agitated





foible

n. moral weakness; failing; weak point; slight fault





foment

v. try to stir up public opinion; promote the growth of; apply warm lotion to





forebode

v. foretell; tell in advance; indicate likelihood of; portend





foreshadow

v. give indication beforehand; indicate by signs





formative

a. developing; forming; capable of forming or molding





forswear

v. renounce or deny something, especially under oath; swear falsely, usually under pressure





fracas

n. noisy, disorderly fight or quarrel; disturbance





fractious

a. inclined to make trouble; disobedient; irritable





fraternize

v. associate with others in a brotherly or friendly way





frenetic

a. excessively agitated; transported with rage or other violent emotion





frenzied

a. madly excited; in a state of hurry, panic, or wild activity





frolicsome

a. full of high-spirited fun; gay; given to merry





frond

n. fern leaf, especially compound leaf; palm or banana leaf





frugality

n. thrift; prudent economy; sparing use





fulsome

a. offensively flattering or insincere; offensive; disgusting





furor

n. great excitement; public disorder or uproar





gadfly

n. any of various flies that bite or annoy livestock and other animals; an irritating person





gait

n. manner of walking or stepping; bearing or carriage while moving; walk; the rate of moving





galleon

n. large sailing ship, usually having two or more decks and carrying guns





galvanize

v. stimulate by shock; stir up; spur to action





gambol

v. dance and skip about in sport; leap playfully





gamely

ad. bravely; with the game manner; with willing and spirited fashion





gauche

a. awkward or lacking in social graces; coarse and uncouth





geniality

n. the warmth of disposition and manners; kindliness; sympathy





gentility

n. quality of being well-mannered; refinement; people of good birth





gentry

n. the most powerful members of society





germinal

a. containing seeds of later development; creative





germinate

v. cause to sprout or grow; come into existence





gesticulation

n. deliberate, vigorous motion or gesture





gibe

v. mock; laugh at with contempt and derision





gingerly

ad. with great care or delicacy; cautiously





girder

n. the beam of steel, wood, or reinforced concrete, used as main horizontal support in building





glacial

a. like a glacier; lacking warmth and friendliness; extremely cold or slow





glossary

n. a brief explanation of words often placed at the back of a book





glower

v. look at with a fixed gaze; angry stare





glut

v. fill beyond capacity, especially with food; swallow greedily





gourmand

n. a person who takes excessive pleasure in food and drink





grandiloquent

a. speaking or expressed in lofty style; using high sounding language; overly wordy





granulate

v. form into grains or small masses; make rough on the surface





grapple

v. wrestle; come to grips with; seize firmly, as with the hands





gregarious

a. sociable; seeking and enjoying the company of others





guffaw

n. loud, rude burst of laughter; horse-laugh





guile

n. skillful deceit; disposition to deceive or cheat; disguise cunningly





guileless

a. free from deceit; sincere; honest





gustatory

a. relating to the sense of taste; relating to gustation





gusty

a. windy or stormy; given to sudden bursts of passion; excitable; irritable





haggard

a. wasted away; showing wearing effects of overwork or suffering





halting

a. hesitant; faltering; imperfect or defective





harbinger

n. forerunner; an indication of the approach of something or someone





haughtiness

n. pride; arrogance; highness or loftiness





heckler

n. one who harasses others; one who tries to embarrass others with questions and objections





hedonist

n. one who believes that pleasure is the sole aim in life





hegemony

n. domination, influence, or authority over another, especially by political group or nation over others





herbivorous

a. grain-eating; plant-eating; feeding only on plants





hermetic

a. sealed by fusion so as to be airtight





heterodox

a. unorthodox; unconventional; not in agreement with accepted beliefs, especially in church doctrine





hibernal

a. wintry; belonging or relating to winter





hibernate

v. sleep throughout winter; be in an inactive or dormant state





hinterland

n. region; remote and undeveloped area





histrionic

a. characteristic of acting or stage performance





hodgepodge

n. jumble; a mixture of ill-suited elements; something made up of miscellaneous





hoodwink

v. deceive; take in by deceptive means; delude





horticultural

a. pertaining to cultivation of gardens or orchards





hurtle

v. crash; move with or as if with great speed and rushing noise





hydrophobia

n. rabies, especially in human beings; abnormal fear of water





ichthyology

n. branch of zoology that deals with the study of fishes





iconoclastic

a. attacking cherished traditions; characterized by an attack on established beliefs





idiosyncrasy

n. the behavioral attribute that is distinctive and peculiar to an individual





idolatry

n. worship of idols; excessive admiration





illimitable

a. without limits in extent, size, or quantity





imbibe

v. drink in; absorb or take in as if by drinking





imbue

v. inspire or influence thoroughly; stain or dye deeply or completely





immobility

n. quality of not moving; remaining in place





impalpable

a. difficult to perceive senses or mind





impecunious

a. without money; poor; penniless





impenitent

a. impervious to moral persuasion; of hard heart





impermeable

a. not allowing passage, especially of liquids; waterproof





impiety

n. irreverence; lack of respect for God





impinge

v. infringe; advance beyond usual limit; make a physical impact on; touch





impious

a. irreverent; lacking due respect or dutifulness





importunate

a. urging; demanding; expressing earnest entreaty





importune

v. beg persistently; ask for urgently or repeatedly; annoy





impoverished

a. poor; reduced to poverty; deprived of natural richness or strength





imprecation

n. curse; the act of calling down a curse that invokes evil





improvident

a. thriftless; not providing for future; incautious





impugn

v. dispute or contradict, often in an insulting way; challenge





inadvertent

a. not intentional; not on purpose; careless; negligent; inattentive





inaugurate

v. start; initiate; induct into office by a formal ceremony





incandescent

a. strikingly bright; shining with intense heat; emitting light as a result of being heated





incarnadine

a. red, especially blood-red; of the blood-red color of raw flesh





inchoate

a. recently begun; imperfectly formed or developed; elementary





incise

v. cut the surface of something carefully with a sharp tool; carve





incisive

a. penetrating, clear, and sharp, as in operation or expression





inconsistency

n. state of being self-contradictory; lack of uniformity or steadiness





incontinent

a. lacking self-restraint; lacking sexual restraint; unchaste





incorporeal

a. not consisting of matter, or not having a material body; immaterial; insubstantial





incredulous

a. difficult to believe; incredible; skeptical





increment

n. process of increasing in number, size, quantity, or extent





incrustation

n. hard outer layer that covers something





incubate

v. hatch; develop under favorable conditions





indent

v. nick; set in from margin; impress or stamp





indenture

v. contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified term





indigent

a. poor; experiencing want or need; impoverished





indiscriminate

a. choosing at random; not marked by fine distinctions





indissoluble

a. permanent; impossible to dissolve, disintegrate, or decompose





indoctrinate

v. teach with biased or one-sided ideology; teach doctrines to; teach uncritically





indubitable

a. unable to be doubted; unquestionable





inducible

a. capable of being caused or made to take place





ineffable

a. unutterable; cannot be expressed in speech





inefficacious

a. not effective; unable to produce the desired result





inequity

n. unfairness; lack of equity or abstract justice; disagreement with equitable principles





inexorable

a. not capable of being swayed; unyielding; implacable





infidel

n. one who does not hold the same religious beliefs as another





infirmity

n. weakness; bodily ailment or weakness, especially one brought on by old age





ingenuous

a. naive and trusting; young; unsophisticated





ingrained

a. deeply established; firmly rooted





ingratiate

v. become popular with; make agreeable or acceptable





inhibit

v. restrain; prevent or forbid; hold back





inimical

a. unfriendly; hostile; harmful; detrimental





inimitable

a. matchless; not able to be imitated





iniquitous

a. wicked or sinful; immoral; unrighteous





insalubrious

a. unwholesome; not healthful; not promoting health





inscribe

v. write or engrave; markdown as something to be read; imprint; assign or address to





insensate

a. lacking sensibility and understanding; foolish





insensible

a. unconscious; unresponsive; very small or gradual





insolvent

a. bankrupt; unable to repay one's debts





instil

v. enter drop by drop; infuse slowly





insubstantial

a. lacking substance or reality; insignificant; frail; not firm or solid





insularity

n. narrow-mindedness; isolation; state of being isolated or detached





insuperable

a. impossible to overcome; unbeatable





intelligentsia

n. intelligent and educated elite, especially in nineteenth-century Poland, in Russia, and later the Soviet Union





intemperate

a. not temperate or moderate; excessive, especially in the use of alcoholic beverages





interlocutor

n. one who speaks in dialogue or takes part in a conversation





interment

n. act or ritual of interring or burying; the act of burying dead body; burial





internecine

a. mutually destructive; equally devastating to both sides





interregnum

n. the temporary halting of usual operations of government or control; the time between two reigns





intractable

a. difficult to manage or govern; stubborn; unyielding





intransigence

n. refusal of any compromise; stubbornness





inundate

v. overwhelm; cover with water, especially floodwaters





inure

v. apply in use; use or accustom till no pain or inconvenience; harden; habituate





inured

a. accustomed; made tough by habitual exposure





invective

n. abusive language used to express blame or ill will





inverse

a. opposite; reversed in order, nature, or effect; turned upside down





invertebrate

n. animal, such as an insect that lacks backbone or spinal column





invidious

a. designed to create ill will or envy





invigorate

v. give vigor to; give life and energy to; strengthen; animate





Chapter 11: Level 3 - 3





inviolable

a. secure from corruption, attack, or violation; unassailable





irascible

a. irritable; easily angered; excited by or arising from anger





ire

n. anger; wrath; keen resentment; irritate





iridescent

a. exhibiting or giving out colors like those of rainbow; gleaming or shimmering with rainbow colors





irremediable

a. incurable; uncorrectable; impossible to remedy or correct





irreproachable

a. perfect or blameless in every respect; faultless; impeccable





irresolute

a. uncertain how to act or proceed; undecided; lacking in resolution





irretrievable

a. impossible to recover or regain; irreparable





irreverence

n. lack of proper respect; disrespectful act or remark





jaundiced

a. prejudiced; affected by jaundice which causes yellowing of the skin; yellow or yellowish





jingoist

n. extremely aggressive and militant patriot; one who advocates aggressive nationalism





jocose

a. given to joking; merry; humorous





jocular

a. humorous, amusing or joking; sportive; not serious





jollity

n. gayness; splendor; cheerfulness or celebration





jostle

v. come into rough contact with while moving; make one's way by pushing or elbowing





jubilation

n. rejoicing; feeling of extreme joy





junta

n. group of men joined in political intrigue; a group of military officers ruling a country





jurisprudence

n. philosophy or science of law; a division or department of law





juxtaposition

n. act of positioning close together; side-by-side position





kleptomaniac

n. person who has compulsive desire to steal





knave

n. untrustworthy person; deceitful and unreliable scoundrel; a man of humble birth; male servant





knotty

a. tied in knots; covered with knots or knobs; difficult to understand or solve





lackadaisical

a. lacking purpose or zest; halfhearted; lacking spirit or liveliness





laggard

a. slow; sluggish; wasting time





lampoon

v. ridicule; subject to abusive ridicule expressed in work of art





larder

n. pantry; place where food is kept





largess

n. generous gift; money or gifts bestowed





lassitude

n. state or feeling of weariness, diminished energy, or listlessness





laud

v. give praise to; glorify; celebrate or honor





leaven

v. cause to rise, especially by fermentation; add a rising agent to





lecherous

a. vigorously passionate; excessive desire, especially in sexual activity





lechery

n. unrestrained indulgence in sexual activity; impurity in thought and deed





legerdemain

n. show of skill or deceitful cleverness, considered magical by naive observers





lethargic

a. drowsy; dull; indifferent or apathetic





lexicographer

n. author or compiler of dictionary; one employed in the making of vocabulary or wordbook of language





lexicon

n. dictionary; a stock of terms used in a particular profession, subject, or style; vocabulary





liberator

n. someone who releases people from captivity





libertarian

n. one who advocates individual rights and free will





libertine

n. free thinker, usually used disparagingly; one without moral restraint





libretto

n. text of dramatic musical work, such as opera





licentious

a. amoral; unrestrained; lacking moral discipline or ignoring legal restraint





lilliputian

a. extremely small; very small person; trivial or petty





linchpin

n. something that holds or links various parts together





liniment

n. the medicinal liquid that is rubbed into the skin to relieve muscular stiffness and pain





lionize

v. look on or treat a person as a celebrity; visit famous places in order to revere them





lisp

v. pronounce the letter s imperfectly; give s and z the sound of th; speak hesitatingly with a low voice, as if afraid





loll

v. be lazy or idle; move, stand, or recline in a relaxed manner





lope

v. gallop slowly; run or ride with steady, easy gait; travel at an easy pace with long strides





lugubrious

a. mournful, dismal, or gloomy, especially to an exaggerated degree





luminary

n. celebrity; a person who is an inspiration to others; a person who has achieved eminence in a specific field





lummox

n. big or clumsy, often stupid person





macabre

a. suggesting the horror of death and decay; gruesome





macrocosm

n. the whole universe; complex structure, such as society, considered as a single entity containing smaller structures





magnate

n. powerful or influential person, especially in business or industry





maladroit

a. showing lack of skill; clumsy or awkward





malady

n. disease, disorder, or ailment; unwholesome condition





malapropism

n. comic misuse of a word, especially by confusion with one of similar sound





malediction

n. curse; evil-speaking; the utterance of curse or execration





malefactor

n. criminal; one who does evil or injury to another





malingerer

n. one who feigns illness to escape duty





malleable

a. capable of being shaped by pounding; impressionable





malodorous

a. foul-smelling; having bad or offensive odor





marred

a. damaged or disfigured by injury or rough wear





marsupial

n. any mammal of which the female typically has a pouch in which it rears young, such as kangaroo or koala





martinet

n. strict disciplinarian; one who demands absolute adherence to forms and rules





matriculate

v. enroll in college or graduate school





mawkish

a. insincerely emotional; showing a sickly excess of sentiment





meander

v. follow a winding and turning course; move aimlessly and idly without fixed direction





megalomania

n. mental disorder with delusions of grandeur





melee

n. fight in which the combatants are mingled; hand to hand conflict; noisy, riotous fight





mellifluous

a. flowing or dropping like honey; sweetly or smoothly flowing, especially in sound





mendacious

a. lying; habitually dishonest; speaking falsely





mendicant

n. beggar; religious friar forbidden to own personal property who begs for a living





mercurial

a. capricious; liable to sudden, unpredictable change; quick and changeable in temperament





mesmerize

v. hypnotize; attract strongly, as if with a magnet; bring into a state of mesmeric sleep





metallurgical

a. about art or skill of removing metals from ores





miasma

n. swamp gas; heavy, vaporous atmosphere, often emanating from decaying matter; pervasive corrupting influence





microcosm

n. a small, representative system having analogies to the larger system; miniature model of something





microorganism

n. bacteria; any organism of microscopic size





migrant

a. habitually moving from place to place, especially in search of seasonal work; wandering





migratory

a. wandering; moving from place to place; unsettled





milieu

n. environment; person's social setting or environment





mime

v. act out without words but with gestures and bodily movements only; imitate





mimicry

n. imitation; act, practice, or art of mimicking





mincing

a. speaking or walking affectedly or with caution; affectedly elegant and nice





minutia

n. petty details; small particular or detail; a minute or trivial matter of fact





misanthrope

n. one who hates or mistrusts mankind





misapprehension

n. wrong apprehension of one's meaning or a fact; misunderstanding





miscellany

n. collection of various items, parts, or ingredients, especially one composed of diverse literary works





misconstrue

v. interpret incorrectly; misjudge; mistake the meaning of





miserly

a. indicative of lack of generosity; cautious with money





misrepresent

v. give a false or incorrect impression, often deliberately; serve unsatisfactorily as representative





missive

n. letter; written message; messenger





mnemonic

a. assisting, or intended to assist the memory





modulate

v. tone down in intensity; regulate; change from one key to another





mollify

v. make less rigid or softer; calm in temper or feeling





molt

v. shed or cast off hair or feathers





monastic

a. related to monks or monasteries; removed from worldly concerns





monochromatic

a. having only one color; viewing only one color, total color blindness





monolithic

a. constituting or acting as a single, often in rigid or uniform





monosyllabic

a. having only one syllable; speaking in curt





monumental

a. massive; taking a great amount of time and effort to complete; in the manner of a monument





moodiness

n. feeling of depression or gloom; sullenness





mordant

a. bitingly painful; harshly ironic or sinister; serving to fix colors in dyeing





moribund

a. dying; in a dying state; approaching death; about to die





morphology

n. branch of biology that deals with the structure of animals and plants





mortify

v. cause to experience shame or humiliation; embarrass





mottled

a. spotted with different shades or colors





muffle

v. make a sound quieter and less clear





multifaceted

a. having many facets or aspects





multifarious

a. varied; greatly diversified; made up of many differing parts





multiform

a. occurring in or having many forms or shapes





multiplicity

n. state of being multiplex or various; condition of being numerous; a large number





musky

a. having an odor of musk, a secretion produced by certain animals, such as otter or civet





mutability

n. ability to change in form; fickleness





mutinous

a. unruly; rebellious; turbulent and uncontrollable





myopic

a. nearsighted; lacking foresight; narrow minded





mystify

v. bewilder purposely; confuse or puzzle mentally; make obscure or mysterious





nadir

n. the lowest point; point on sphere opposites zenith diametrically





nascent

a. incipient; coming into existence; emerging





nauseate

v. cause to become sick; fill with disgust





nebulous

a. lacking definite form or limits; hazy; cloudy





necromancy

n. belief in magical spells to produce unnatural effects; the communicating with spirits of dead ones to predict future





neologism

n. new or newly invented word or phrase





neonate

n. newborn infant, especially one less than four weeks old





neophyte

n. recent convert to a belief; one newly initiated





nettle

v. cause annoyance in; disturb, especially by minor irritations; vex





nicety

n. precision; the subtle difference in meaning, opinion, or attitude





nicotine

n. an alkaloid poison that occurs in tobacco





noisome

a. foul-smelling; offensive by arousing disgust; harmful or dangerous





nomenclature

n. terminology; system of names used in an art or science





nonchalance

n. indifference; lack of concern; composure





nonconformist

n. one who refuses to conform to established standards of conduct; not conforming to some norm; unconventional





nondescript

a. dull and uninteresting; lacking distinct or individual





nonentity

n. person of no importance; something that does not exist or that exists only in the imagination





nonplus

v. perplex or bewilder someone; confound or flummox





nostrum

n. patent medicine whose efficacy is questionable; quack medicine





nullify

v. make invalid; make null; invalidate; counteract force or effectiveness of





numismatist

n. collector and student of money, in particular of coins





nutrient

n. nourishing substance; source of nourishment, especially the nourishing ingredient in a food





obfuscate

v. confuse; muddle; cause confusion; make needlessly complex





obstreperous

a. noisily aggressive; making great noise or outcry





obtrude

v. push oneself or one's ideas forward or intrude; stick out or extrude





obviate

v. bypass requirement or make it unnecessary; get rid of





odium

n. strong dislike, contempt, or aversion; hatefulness; disrepute





odorous

a. having distinctive odor; emitting an odor; sweet of scent; fragrant





oligarchy

n. government by a few persons, especially by a small faction of persons or families





omnipresent

a. universally present; being present everywhere





omniscient

a. having total knowledge; knowing everything





omnivorous

a. eating both plant and animal food; devouring everything; having an interest in a variety of subjects





onerous

a. burdensome or oppressive; not easily borne; wearing





onus

n. burden or obligation; difficult or disagreeable responsibility or necessity





opalescent

a. varying in color when seen in different lights or from different angles; lustrous





opiate

n. medicine to induce sleep or deaden pain; something that relieves emotions or causes inaction





opine

v. express an opinion; think; suppose





opprobrious

a. bringing disgrace; shameful or infamous





optometrist

n. a person skilled in testing for defects of vision in order to prescribe corrective glasses





oracular

a. prophetic; uttered as if with divine authority; mysterious or ambiguous





oratorio

n. musical composition for voices and orchestra based on religious text





ordination

n. act of admitting to holy orders; disposition as in ranks or rows; formal arrangement





ornithologist

n. one who makes special study of birds





ornithology

n. branch of zoology that deals with the study of birds





oscillate

v. swing back and forth with a steady, uninterrupted rhythm; vibrate pendulum-like; waver





ossify

v. change or form into bone; become set in a rigidly conventional pattern; change from soft tissue to hard bony tissue





ostracize

v. exclude from community or group; banish by popular vote





outmoded

a. no longer usable or practical; obsolete; not in fashion





outstrip

v. exceed or surpass; leave behind





paean

n. song of praise or joy; loud and joyous song; the song of triumph





palatial

a. of nature of palace, as in spaciousness or ornateness





palimpsest

n. manuscript, typically of papyrus or parchment that has been written on more than once, with the earlier writing erased





pall

v. grow tiresome; have dulling, wearisome, or boring effect





palliate

v. lessen the violence of disease; moderate intensity; gloss over with excuses





palpitate

v. beat rapidly; shake with fast, tremulous movements





panacea

n. remedy for all diseases, evils, or difficulties; a cure-all





panegyric

n. formal or high praise; formal eulogistic composition intended as a public compliment





pantomime

n. communication using gesture and facial expression





papyrus

n. ancient paper made from stem of plant





parallelism

n. state of being parallel; similarity in aspect, course, or tendency





parameter

n. characteristic or feature that distinguishes something from others





parch

v. burn the surface of; roast over the fire, as dry grain; dry to extremity





parsimonious

a. excessively unwilling to spend; excessively sparing or frugal





partial

a. incomplete; fragmentary; favoring one person or side over another or others





partiality

n. inclination; favorable prejudice or bias; special fondness





particulate

a. composed of distinct particles





pastel

a. any of various pale or light colors; lacking in body or vigor





pastiche

n. imitation of another's style in musical composition or writing





pastoral

a. rural; relating to shepherds or herders; relating to the country or country life





pathogen

n. any disease-producing agent





pathogenic

a. able to cause disease; producing disease





patina

n. the green crust on old bronze works; tone slowly taken by varnished painting





patrician

a. belong to noble origin; having high birth





paucity

n. scarcity; smallness of number; fewness





peccadillo

n. slight offense; small sin or fault





peculate

v. embezzle; appropriate fraudulently to one's own use; steal public money entrusted to one's care





pecuniary

a. relating to money; requiring payment of money





pedagogy

n. teaching; the art of education; the science of teaching





pedant

n. one who is overly concerned with formal rules and trivial points of learning





pedantic

a. marked by a narrow focus on or display of learning, especially formal rules and trivial points





pejorative

a. tending to make or become worse; disparaging or belittling





pellucid

a. transparent; limpid; easy to understand





penitent

a. feeling or expressing deep regret for misdeeds





percolate

v. spread gradually; cause the liquid to pass through small holes; filter





percussion

a. striking one object against another sharply





perdition

n. entire ruin; utter destruction, especially, utter loss of soul, or of final happiness in future





peregrination

n. travel or journey, especially by foot, notably by pilgrim





peremptory

a. offensively self-assured; dictatorial; not allowing contradiction or refusal





perfidious

a. tending to betray; disloyal; faithless





perforate

v. pierce, punch, or borehole or holes in; penetrate





permeable

a. penetrable; porous; allowing liquids or gas to pass-through





permeate

v. spread or flow throughout; pervade





perquisite

n. any gain above stipulated salary; extra payment





perspicacious

a. having keen insight; mentally perceptive; astute





pert

a. improperly forward or bold; trim and stylish in appearance





pertinacious

a. stubbornly or perversely persistent; unyielding; obstinate





perturb

v. disturb greatly; make uneasy or anxious; throw into great confusion





pervasive

a. pervading; spread throughout every part





pessimism

n. the belief that life is basically bad or evil; gloominess





petrifaction

n. process of turning some plant material into stone





petrify

v. convert wood or other organic matter into stony replica; cause to become stiff or stonelike





phalanx

n. a compact, close-knit group of people, animals, or things





philology

n. study of language; investigation of language and its literature





phonetics

n. branch of acoustics concerned with speech processes, including its production and perception





phylum

n. a major class of plants; primary branch of the animal kingdom; division





picaresque

a. involving clever rogues or adventurers





piebald

a. mottled; spotted or patched, especially in black and white





pilfer

v. steal in small quantities or articles of small value; practice petty theft





piquant

a. pleasantly tart-tasting; stimulating; charming or attractive





pique

n. a sudden outburst of anger; state of vexation caused by a perceived slight or indignity





plagiarism

n. theft of another's ideas or writings passed off as original





plagiarize

v. steal another's ideas and pass them off as one's own





plasma

n. the fourth state of matter distinct from solid or liquid or gas and present in stars and fusion reactors





plasticity

n. ability to be molded, formed, or modeled; quality or state of being plastic





plaudit

n. enthusiastically worded approval; a round of applause





plenitude

n. abundance; completeness; ample amount or quantity





pliable

a. flexible; yielding; easily bent or shaped





pliant

a. flexible; easily influenced; easily bent or flexed; pliable





plod

v. move or walk heavily or laboriously; travel slowly but steadily





plumage

n. covering of feathers on the bird; feathers used ornamentally; elaborate dress





plutocracy

n. society or government ruled by wealthy class





poignancy

n. state of deeply felt distress or sorrow; keenness of emotion





polarize

v. split into opposite extremes or camps





polemical

a. aggressive in verbal attack; disputatious





polygamist

n. one who has more than one spouse at a time





polyglot

a. speaking, writing, written in or composed of several languages





polygon

n. a closed plane figure bounded by straight sides





pomposity

n. excessive self-esteem or exaggerated dignity; acting like a stuffed shirt





pontifical

a. pertaining to bishop or pope; having dignity or authority of the bishop





portend

v. foretell; serve as an omen or a warning of; indicate by prediction





portentous

a. full of unspecifiable significance; exciting wonder and awe; wonderful





portly

a. inoffensive expression of fat; stout





posit

v. assume the existence of; put forward, as for consideration or study; suggest





postdate

v. be later in time





posthumous

a. after death, as of child born after father's death or book published after author's death





postulate

n. essential premise; the underlying assumption





potable

a. suitable for drinking; drinkable





potentate

n. monarch; ruler who is unconstrained by law





prate

v. speak foolishly; talk idly and at length; chatter





precipitate

v. fall from clouds; hurl or throw violently; fall vertically, sharply, or headlong





precis

n. concise summing up of main points





precursor

n. forerunner; one who precedes an event and indicates its approach





predetermine

v. determine, decide, or establish in advance; influence markedly





predispose

v. give inclination toward; make susceptible to; settle or dispose of in advance





predominate

v. be larger in number, quantity, power, status, or importance





preeminent

a. outstanding; superior to or notable above all others





preen

v. make oneself tidy in appearance; feel self-satisfaction





prehensile

a. capable of grasping or holding; having a keen intellect





prelate

n. church dignitary; senior clergyman





premeditate

v. plan, arrange or plot in advance; deliberate upon future action





prescience

n. ability to foretell the future; knowledge of actions or events before they occur; foresight





presentiment

n. the sense that something is about to occur; anticipatory fear; premonition





prestidigitation

n. cleverly executed trick or deception; skill in performing magic or conjuring tricks with hands





preternatural

a. being beyond the normal course of nature; differing from natural





prevaricate

v. lie; stray from or evade the truth; behave in an evasive way such as to delay action





primeval

a. ancient; primitive; belonging to the first or earliest age; original or ancient





primp

v. become formal or affected in dress or manners; give a neat appearance to





privation

n. hardship; state of extreme poverty





proffer

v. hold forth so that a person may take; offer for acceptance





profligate

a. inclined to waste resources or behave extravagantly; wildly immoral





profusion

n. overabundance; lavish or unrestrained expense





prohibitive

a. tending to discourage; prohibiting; forbidding





proletarian

n. member of working class; blue collar person





prolixity

n. tedious wordiness; verbosity; great length; minute detail





promontory

n. natural elevation, especially a rock that projects into the sea; cliff; headland; high cape





promulgate

v. proclaim doctrine or law; make known by an official publication





propellant

n. something that propels or drives forward





prophetic

a. foretelling events as if by divine inspiration





propinquity

n. property of being close together; kinship; nearness; similarity in nature





propitiate

v. make peace with; appease and render favorable





propitious

a. presenting favorable circumstances; fortunate; advantageous





proponent

n. one who argues in support of something; advocate; backer





propound

v. put forward; offer for consideration or debate





proprietorship

n. an unincorporated business owned by a single person who is responsible for its liabilities and entitled to its profits





propulsive

a. driving forward; having power to propel





proscribe

v. command against; banish; not allow something





proselytize

v. induce someone to convert to one's own religious faith





prostrate

v. put or throw flat with face down; cause to lie flat





protean

a. versatile; able to take on many shapes; readily taking on varied shapes





protract

v. prolong; draw out or lengthen in time





protrude

v. extend out or project in space; stick out





protuberance

n. something that bulges out; swelling or tumor on the body





Chapter 12: Level 3 - 4





provident

a. displaying foresight; providing carefully for future; preparing for emergencies





prurient

a. having or causing lustful thoughts and desires; having an eager desire for something





puerile

a. childish; belonging to childhood; immature





pugilist

n. one who fights with his fists, especially a professional prize fighter; boxer





pugnacity

n. combativeness; inclination or readiness to fight; quarrelsomeness





puissant

a. powerful; mighty; strong; vigorous; forcible





pulchritude

n. great physical beauty and appeal; attractive moral excellence; moral beauty





pulverize

v. pound, crush, or grind to powder or dust





punctilious

a. marked by precise accordance with details





pundit

n. authority on a subject; learned person; expert





purloin

v. steal, often in violation of trust; put away; remove





purported

a. assumed to be such; supposed; rumored





purveyor

n. one who supplies provisions, especially food; caterer





pusillanimous

a. cowardly; lacking strength and firmness of mind





quadruped

n. four-footed or quadruped animal, especially, four-footed mammal





quaff

v. drink with relish; swallow hurriedly or greedily





quantitative

a. expressed or expressible as a quantity; relating to the measurement of quantity





quay

n. dock; landing place; reinforced bank where ships are loaded or unloaded





quiescent

a. at rest; dormant; temporarily inactive





quietude

n. tranquility; state of peace and quiet





quintessence

n. pure, highly concentrated essence of a thing





quip

n. clever, witty remark often prompted by occasion





quixotic

a. idealistic without regard to practicality





raconteur

n. storyteller; one who tells stories and anecdotes with skill and wit





raiment

n. clothing; garments; dress; garb; costume





ramification

n. act or process of branching out or dividing into branches; subdivision or branch





ramify

v. divide into branches or subdivisions; subordinate branchlike parts





ramshackle

a. of very poor quality or condition; loose-jointed; ill-made; out of gear or repair





rancor

n. bitter, long-lasting resentment; deep-seated ill will; hatred





rankle

v. grow worse; cause persistent irritation or resentment





rapt

a. absorbed; deeply moved or delighted





rarefied

a. made less dense of gas; elevated in character or style; lofty





raspy

a. unpleasantly harsh or grating in sound





ratiocination

n. reasoning; the act of concluding from premises





ration

n. allotment; allowance; portion; allot; distribute in rations





raucous

a. harsh and rough-sounding; disturbing public peace; loud and rough





ravel

v. separate the fibers or threads of; clarify by separating the aspects of





raze

v. destroy completely; scrape or shave off





recalcitrant

a. obstinately stubborn; determined to resist authority





recapitulate

v. summarize; repeat in concise form





recast

v. reconstruct sentence or story; present ideas in a new or different arrangement





recidivism

n. habitual return to crime; committing new offenses after being punished for a crime





rectitude

n. uprightness; moral virtue; correctness of judgment





recumbent

a. reclining; lying down completely or in part





recurrent

a. occurring or appearing again or repeatedly





redolent

a. fragrant; odorous; suggestive of odor





redoubtable

a. formidable; arousing fear or awe; worthy of respect or honor





refract

v. deflect sound or light from straight path; alter by viewing through a medium





refraction

n. the fact of light or sound being caused to change direction or to separate when it travels through water, glass





refractory

a. stubborn; unmanageable; obstinately resistant to authority or control





refurbish

v. renovate; make bright by polishing





regale

v. entertain; provide with great enjoyment





rejoinder

n. retort; comeback; answer to a reply





rekindle

v. arouse again; make someone have a feeling that they had in the past





relegate

v. assign to obscure place, position, or condition; delegate; assign





relent

v. give in; become more compassionate or forgiving; cause to soften in attitude or temper





remediable

a. capable of being remedied or cured; set straight or right





reminiscence

n. recollection; process of remembering





remonstrance

n. expression of protest, complaint, or reproof, and especially formal statement of grievances





remunerative

a. compensating; rewarding; profitable or paying





rend

v. split; tear or split apart or into pieces violently





reparable

a. capable of being repaired; admitting of repair





reparation

n. act of putting something in working order again; act or process of making amends; compensation





repast

n. food eaten or provided at a meal; feast; banquet





repercussion

n. often indirect effect or result that is produced by an event or action; reflection, especially of sound





replete

a. filled to the brim or to the point of being stuffed; abundantly supplied





reprise

n. musical repetition; repeat performance; recurrent action





repulsion

n. distaste; extreme aversion; act of driving back





requite

v. repay; revenge; make repayment for or return something





resplendent

a. dazzling; glorious; shining with brilliant luster; very bright





responsiveness

n. quality of being responsive; reacting quickly





restive

a. impatient under restraint or opposition; resisting control; difficult to control





resumption

n. resuming; beginning again; recommencement





resurge

v. rise again; sweep or surge back again





retinue

n. following members; attendants accompanying high-ranking person





retrench

v. cut down; reduce; restrict; economize





revelry

n. merrymaking, especially, festivity or jollity





reverent

a. respectful; worshipful; impressed with deep respect





reverie

n. daydream; state of abstracted musing; absent-minded dreaming while awake





revile

v. attack with abusive language; vilify





rhapsodize

v. speak or write in an exaggeratedly enthusiastic manner





ribald

a. coarse or indecent; humorously vulgar or offensive





rinse

v. cleanse with water; flush; wash lightly without soap





rivulet

n. small brook or stream; streamlet





roil

v. make liquids murky by stirring up sediment





rostrum

n. elevated platform for public speaking; pulpit





rote

n. memorizing process using routine or repetition; the sound of surf breaking on the shore





rotundity

n. roundness; rounded fullness; integral entireness





ruminate

v. chew over and over mentally, or like cows physically; mull over; ponder





saboteur

n. one who commits sabotage; destroyer of property





sacrosanct

a. regarded as sacred and inviolable





salacious

a. lustful; suggestive of or tending to moral looseness





salubrious

a. healthful; favorable to health; promoting health; wholesome





salvo

n. release or discharge of bombs or firearms; forceful verbal or written assault





sartorial

a. relating to a tailor, tailoring, or tailored clothing





sate

v. satisfy appetite fully; satisfy to excess





satiate

v. satisfy fully; overeat or eat immodestly; make a pig of oneself





satire

n. form of literature in which irony and ridicule are used to attack human vice and folly





satirical

a. mocking; exposing human folly to ridicule





satirize

v. make object of satire; attack with satire; censure with keenness or severe sarcasm.





saturate

v. soak, fill, or load to capacity; cause to unite with the greatest possible amount of another substance





saturnine

a. gloomy; marked by a tendency to be bitter or sardonic





saunter

v. stroll slowly; walk at a leisurely pace





savant

n. scholar; man of learning or science; one eminent for learning





scabbard

n. the case for sword blade; sheath





scads

n. a large number or quantity





scaffold

n. a temporary platform for workers; bracing framework; a platform for execution





scavenge

v. hunt through discarded materials for usable items; search, especially for food





schematic

a. relating to outline or diagram; represented simply, as using symbols





scintillate

v. give off sparks; shine as if emanating sparks; twinkle or glow





scrutinize

v. examine closely and critically





scuba

n. a device that lets divers breathe underwater





sculpt

v. create by shaping stone or wood or any other hard material





scurrilous

n. obscene; indecent; expressing offensive reproach





scuttle

v. deliberately sink a ship by order of the commander, rather than by enemy action





seamy

a. sordid; morally degraded; squalid or corrupt





secession

n. act of seceding; withdrawal; withdrawal of 11 Southern states from the Union





secrete

v. hide away; generate and separate substance from cells or bodily fluids





sectarian

a. relating to religious faction or subgroup; narrow-minded; limited





sectional

a. consisting of or divided into sections; separating into sections





sedulous

a. diligent; hardworking; persevering, and constant in effort or application





seedling

n. young plant or tree that has grown from seed; produced from seed





seemly

a. proper; appropriate; of pleasing appearance; handsome





seethe

v. be disturbed; boil; be in a state of turmoil or ferment





semiliterate

n. barely able to read and write; able to read but not to write





sententious

a. concise and full of meaning; using as few words as possible





sequester

v. isolate; retire from public life; segregate; seclude





seraphic

a. angelic; having sweet nature befitting an angel





servile

a. slavish; suitable to slave or servant; relating to servitude or forced labor





shard

n. fragment substance, as of glass or metal; a piece of broken pottery, especially found in an archaeological dig





sheaf

n. bundle of stalks of grain; any bundle of things tied together





sheathe

v. enclose with a protective covering; encase; cover-up or hide





shipwright

n. the carpenter who helps build and launch wooden vessels





shirk

v. avoid or neglect duty or responsibility; malinger





silt

v. mud, clay, or small rocks deposited by river or lake





simile

n. comparison of one thing with another, in English generally using like or as





simper

v. smirk; smile in an artificial way to make an impression





sinecure

n. well-paid position with little responsibility





skinflint

n. one who is very reluctant to spend money; a miser; a selfish person who is unwilling to give or spend





slacken

v. become slower; loosen; become less vigorous, intense, or severe





slake

v. make less active or intense; satisfy thirst





slapdash

a. haphazard; careless; done hastily





slipshod

a. untidy or slovenly; shabby; great carelessness; done poorly or too quickly





slothful

a. lazy; disinclined to work or exertion; inactive; sluggish





slovenly

a. untidy; careless in work habits





sluggard

n. lazy person; person habitually lazy, idle, and slow; sluggish; lazy





slur

v. insult to one's character or reputation; pronounce indistinctly; talk about disparagingly or insultingly





smolder

v. burn without flame; be liable to break out at any moment





snivel

v. run at the nose; snuffle; whine; talk in a tearful manner





snobbish

a. of or pertaining to a snob; vulgarly pretentious





sobriquet

n. nickname; familiar name for person, typically shortened version of the given name





sodden

a. thoroughly soaked; expressionless, stupid, or dull, especially from drink





solder

v. repair or unite by using fusible metal alloy, usually tin and lead





solecism

n. error in the use of language, especially intentional use of misspelling; violation of the conventional rules of society





solemnity

n. seriousness; gravity; religious or ritual ceremony





somnambulist

n. sleepwalker; person who walks in his sleep





somnolent

a. half asleep; inclined to drowsiness; tending to induce sleep





sophistry

n. the argument for exercise merely; plausible but misleading argument; art or process of reasoning; logic





sophomoric

a. immature; half-baked, like a sophomore





soporific

a. sleep-causing; marked by sleepiness





spangle

n. small metallic piece sewn to clothing for ornamentation





spasmodic

a. affected by involuntary jerky muscular contractions; periodic





specious

a. seemingly reasonable but incorrect; misleading intentionally





spendthrift

n. one who spends money recklessly or wastefully





spurious

a. false; counterfeit; forged; illogical





spurn

v. reject disdainfully or contemptuously; scorn





staccato

a. played abruptly; marked by an abrupt sharp sound





staid

a. sober; serious, organized, and professional; characterized by dignity and propriety





stanch

v. stop or check the flow of liquid; stop the flow of blood from a wound





stigmatize

v. accuse; condemn; mark as wicked





stilted

a. stiff and artificially formal; inflated





stoical

a. enduring pain and hardship without showing feeling or complaint





stratagem

n. deceptive scheme; military maneuver designed to deceive or surprise enemy





stratify

v. divide into classes; form, arrange or deposit in layers





stratum

n. a layer of earth's surface; a layer of society





strew

v. spread randomly; sprinkle; scatter





striated

a. having parallel lines or grooves on surface





stricture

n. restraint, limit, or restriction; adverse remark or criticism





strident

a. loud and harsh; insistent; high-pitched; rough-sounding





stultify

v. cause to appear or become stupid or inconsistent; frustrate or hinder





stupefy

v. make senseless or dizzy; be a mystery or bewildering to





stymie

v. present obstacle; stump; cause to fail or to leave hopelessly puzzled, confused, or stuck





suavity

n. smooth and gracious in manner; quality of being sweet or pleasing to mind; agreeableness





subjugate

v. conquer; bring under control





suborn

v. persuade to act unlawfully, especially to commit perjury





succor

v. aid; assist and deliver from suffering; relieve





suffragist

n. advocate of voting rights for women





sunder

v. separate; break or wrench apart





superimpose

v. place over something else; place on top of





supplant

v. replace; usurp; displace and substitute for another





supplicate

v. ask for humbly or earnestly, as by praying; make humble, earnest petition; beg





surfeit

v. eat until excessively full; be more than full; feed someone to excess





surreptitious

a. secret; done or made by stealth, or without proper authority; made or introduced fraudulently





swathe

v. wrap or bind with or as if with bandages





swelter

v. be oppressed by heat; suffer terribly from the intense heat





sybarite

n. person devoted to pleasure and luxury





symbiosis

n. the interdependent relationship between groups or species, often mutually beneficial





synoptic

a. providing general overview; summary





talon

n. claw of a bird of prey; part of the lock that key presses to shoot bolt





tangential

a. peripheral; only slightly connected; digressing





tantalize

v. tease; torture with disappointment; bait someone by showing something desirable but leaving them unsatisfied





tautological

a. needlessly repetitious; using repetition or excessive wordiness





tautology

n. unnecessary repetition, especially for the same sense in different words; redundancy





temerity

n. boldness; rashness; foolhardy disregard of danger





tempestuous

a. very stormy; turbulent; rough with wind; impassioned; violent





temporize

v. act evasively in order to gain time, avoid an argument, or postpone a decision





tendentious

a. having or marked by a strong tendency





tenet

n. opinion, doctrine, or principle held as being true by person or organization





tensile

a. capable of being stretched or extended; ductile





thematic

a. relating to motif or idea; relating to theme or topic





theocracy

n. the government ruled by or subject to religious authority





threadbare

a. worn through till threads show; wearing old, shabby clothing; shabby and poor





tightwad

n. one who is stingy or overly cautious or defensive with money; a miser





timorous

a. fearful; demonstrating fear; weakly hesitant





titter

n. laugh in a restrained, nervous way; giggle





titular

a. nominal holding of the title without obligations; existing in name only; nominal





toady

n. a person who flatters or defers to others for self-serving reasons; yes man





torpor

n. state of mental or physical inactivity or insensibility; sluggishness; dormancy





totter

v. walk unsteadily or feebly; stagger; sway, as if about to fall





traduce

v. cause disgrace to by malicious and false statements; hold up or expose to ridicule or calumny; defame





tranquillity

n. calmness; peace; freedom from disturbance or agitation





transcribe

v. copy; write over again in same words





transmute

v. change from one form, nature, substance, or state into another; transform





transpose

v. substitute one for the other of; reverse or transfer order or place of; interchange





travail

n. painful labor; work, especially when arduous or involving painful effort





treacly

a. overly sweet; cloyingly sentimental





tremulous

a. marked by trembling, quivering, or shaking; timid or fearful; timorous





trenchant

a. forceful, effective, and vigorous; sharp or keen





trounce

v. win by a wide margin; beat thoroughly or heavily; punish or beat severely





truculence

n. aggressiveness; ferocity; ferociously cruel actions or behavior





truculent

a. disposed to fight; belligerent; aggressively hostile





truism

n. undoubted or self-evident truth; obvious truth





truncate

v. cut the top off; make something shorter as if by cutting off





turgid

a. swollen; distended; excessively ornate or complex in style or language





turpitude

n. depravity; corrupt, depraved, or degenerate act





tyro

n. beginner in learning something; novice





unaccountable

a. not able to be explained or understood; unreasonable or mysterious





unassailable

a. impossible to assail; without flaws or loopholes





unctuous

a. oily; composed of oil or fat; characterized by affected, exaggerated, or insincere earnestness





underscore

v. draw a mark or line under; emphasize; stress





undulating

a. moving with wavelike motion





unerringly

a. infallibly; without error, mistake, or failure





unfetter

v. liberate; free from chains; set free or keep free from restrictions or bonds





unfrock

v. strip a priest or minister of church authority; remove from the status as a member of the clergy





unintimidating

a. not intimidating; not making one fearful





unkempt

a. untidy; dirty; uncared for in appearance





unobtrusive

a. inconspicuous; not obtrusive or undesirably noticeable





unpalatable

a. distasteful; disagreeable; unpleasant to taste





unprepossessing

a. unattractive; unimpressive or unremarkable; dull and ordinary





unsightly

a. ugly; displeasing to eye; unpleasant to look at





unstinting

a. generous and tireless with one's contributions of time, money





uproarious

a. characterized by loud, confused noise, or by noisy and uncontrollable laughter





urbane

a. showing a high degree of refinement





utensil

n. instrument, implement, or container for practical use, especially in kitchen or laboratory





utopian

n. idealistic but usually impractical social reformer





vacillate

v. sway unsteadily from one side to the other; oscillate





vacillation

n. act of vacillating; moving one way and other; wavering





vacuous

a. empty; showing lack of thought or intelligence; vacant





vagrant

n. a person without home or job; bird found outside its species' usual range





valedictory

a. of a speech given in farewell, especially one delivered by an outstanding member of graduating class





vanguard

n. advance forces; leading units at the front of army or fleet; persons at the forefront of any group or movement





variegated

a. streaked, spotted, or marked with a variety of color; very colorful





venal

a. capable of being bribed; for sale, available for a price; corrupt





vend

v. sell or offer for sale from place to place; sell





venerate

v. treat with great respect and deference; consider hallowed or be in awe of





venial

a. pardonable; able to be forgiven; trivial





venturesome

a. willing to try new things and take risks; bold





verbalize

v. express in speech; speak or use words to express





verbiage

n. pompous array of words; overabundance of words





verbose

a. wordy; using or containing a great and usually an excessive number of words





verisimilitude

n. appearance of truth; probability; likelihood





verity

n. truth, fact, or reality, especially enduring religious or ethical truth





vertebrate

n. animals having a bony or cartilaginous skeleton with a segmented spinal column





vertex

n. highest point; apex or summit; common point of two lines of the angle





vicissitude

n. change, especially in one's life or fortunes; regular change or succession of one thing to another; alternation





vignette

n. unbordered picture, often a portrait; decorative design placed at beginning or end of book; short literary sketch





vilify

v. debase; degrade; spread negative information about





vim

n. vitality and energy; healthy capacity for vigorous activity





viscid

a. adhesive; gluey; covered with a sticky or clammy coating





vise

n. the tool has two jaws to hold the workpiece firmly in place





vitriolic

a. harsh or corrosive in tone; sarcastic; bitterly scathing





vituperative

a. marked by harsh spoken or written abuse; scolding





vociferous

a. offensively loud; noisy; making outcry





voluble

a. fluent; glib; talkative; marked by a ready flow of speech





waggish

a. witty, jocular, like a wag; humorous; tricky





warble

v. sing note or song with trills; modulate tone's frequency





wastrel

n. one who wastes, especially one who wastes money; idler or loafer





watershed

n. crucial dividing point; ridge of high land dividing two areas that are drained by different river systems





waylay

v. lie in wait for and attack from ambush; wait in hiding to attack; intercept unexpectedly





welter

n. turmoil; bewildering jumble; confused mass





wheedle

v. cajole; coax; deceive by flattery





whelp

n. young offspring of a mammal, such as a dog or a wolf; child or youth





winnow

v. blow away; separate good parts from bad; sort or select desirable; extract





winsome

a. agreeable; gracious; charming, often in a childlike or naive way





wispy

a. thin; slight; lacking clarity or distinctness





witticism

n. witty sentence, phrase, or remark; wisecrack





wizardry

n. sorcery; power or effect that appears magical; great ability in the specified field





xenophobia

n. an exaggerated or abnormal fear of strangers or foreigners





yelp

n. eager bark or cry; sharp, quick bark or cry caused by fear or pain





zealot

n. fanatically committed person; a person who shows excessive zeal





